key,title,year,month,day,journal,issn,volume,issue,pages,authors,url,language,publisher,location,abstract,notes,doi,keywords,pubmed_id,pmc_id
rayyan-879385434,Carbon pool dynamics in the Lower Fraser Basin from 1827 to 1990,1997,5,,ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT,0364-152X,21,3,443-455,"Boyle, CA and Lavkulich, L",,English,SPRINGER VERLAG,"175 FIFTH AVE, NEW YORK, NY 10010","To understand the total impact of humans on the carbon cycle, the modeling and quantifying of the transfer of carbon from terrestrial pools to the atmosphere is becoming more critical. Using previously published data, this research sought to assess the change in carbon pools caused by humans in the Lower Fraser Basin (LFB) in British Columbia, Canada, since 1827 and define the long-term, regional contribution of carbon to the atmosphere. The results indicate that. there has been a transfer of 270 Mt of carbon from biomass pools in the LFB to other pools, primarily the atmosphere. The major losses of biomass carbon have been from logged forests (42\%), wetlands (14\%), and soils (43\%). Approximately 48\% of the forest biomass, almost 20\% of the carbon of the LFB, lies within old-growth forest, which covers only 19\% of the study area. landfills are now becoming a major sink of carbon, containing 5\% of the biomass carbon in the LFB, while biomass carbon in buildings, urban vegetation, mammals, and agriculture is negligible. Approximately 26\% of logged forest biomass would still be in a terrestrial biomass pool, leaving 238 Mt of carbon that has been released to the atmosphere. On an area basis, this is 29 times the average global emissions of carbon, providing an indication of the past contributions of developed countries such as Canada to global warming and possible contributions from further clearing of rainforest in both tropical and temperate regions.","USER-NOTES: {""shannon.clarke""=>[""mentions carbon in urban vegetation""]} | RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included"", ""ericapadvaiskas""=>""Included"", ""Emily""=>""Included""} | USER-NOTES: {""Emily""=>[""This paper investigates changes in the carbon pool in the Lower Fraser Basin, but mostly ignores the urban forest in its research. The calculations for biomass in urban areas focus mainly on the biomass stored in buildings. The total biomass of urban vegetation and buildings combined is mentioned, but the biomass of just urban vegetation isn't written in the paper. It can, however, be seen in a graph.""]}",,carbon pools;global warming;carbon release io atmosphere;greenhouse effect,,
rayyan-879385439,Ecosystem services in a peri-urban protected area in Cyprus: a rapid appraisal,2017,,,NATURE CONSERVATION-BULGARIA,1314-6947,,22,129-146,"Manolaki, Paraskevi and Vogiatzakis, Ioannis N.",,English,PENSOFT PUBLISHERS,"12 PROF GEORGI ZLATARSKI ST, SOFIA, 1700, BULGARIA","Protected areas around the world are increasingly being recognized for their potential to protect various ecosystem services in addition to biodiversity. We carried out an ecosystem services (ES) assessment at the Rizoelia National Forest Park, a biodiversity hotspot in Cyprus. For ES assessment we used TESSA v.1.1 and an ES matrix-approach to map the capacity of habitat types in the area. According to TESSA the most important ES provided by the study area are aesthetic benefits, recreation/tourism, biodiversity, global climate regulation, and environmental education. Total Carbon stock was estimated to 14247.327 tonnes and the total number of annual visits was 14471. There were no statistically significant differences in the number of visits among visitation periods but there were statistically significant differences among National Holidays, Weekends and Weekdays. We identified that plantations had the highest capacity for most groups of services particularly where their understory comprises semi-natural habitat types rich in biodiversity. This is the first study in Cyprus which provides a preliminary quantification of ES in a protected area context using widely employed tools. The paper discusses how these findings can help decision-makers to plan direct future restoration and management actions to the benefit of a wide range of stakeholders.","USER-NOTES: {""shannon.clarke""=>[""carbon stock of forest park in periurban area.""]} | RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included"", ""ericapadvaiskas""=>""Included"", ""Emily""=>""Included""} | USER-NOTES: {""Emily""=>[""Urban forest, carbon stock estimates in trees""]}",,ES matrix-approach;island;mapping;Natura 2000;TESSA;Ecosystem,,
rayyan-879385443,Research on recognition and protection of ecological security patterns based on circuit theory: a case study of Jinan City,2020,4,,ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE AND POLLUTION RESEARCH,0944-1344,27,11,12414-12427,"Huang, Jiuming and Hu, Yecui and Zheng, Fangyu",,English,SPRINGER HEIDELBERG,"TIERGARTENSTRASSE 17, D-69121 HEIDELBERG, GERMANY","Accelerated urbanization and population growth have resulted in the loss of ecological land and biodiversity, accompanied by the degradation of ecosystem services. Identifying and improving existing ecological security patterns are of great significance for maintaining the sustainable development of cities. In this study, Jinan, the capital of China's Shandong Province, was used as a case study area. Based on three ecosystem services, namely, soil conservation, water conservation and carbon fixation, ecological sources were determined. Furthermore, a resistance surface was constructed based on biodiversity. On these bases, the circuit theory concept of random walks was applied to simulate ecosystem processes in a heterogeneous landscape and identify ecological corridors, pinch points and barriers. A total of 25 ecological sources, 48 ecological corridors and 19 pinch points were identified, and restoration areas were delimited to three levels. These elements together constituted the ecological security patterns. Specifically, the ecological sources were mainly distributed in southern Jinan and were covered mostly with forest land. The ecological corridors were located mainly in the eastern and southwestern plains below the southern mountainous areas and were covered mostly with cropland. Furthermore, the eastern corridors were much longer than the southwestern corridors. Pinch points were distributed mostly along rivers or around large-scale construction land. Barriers were distributed mainly in Zhangqiu District and northern Licheng District. Based on these findings, hierarchical restoration areas were delimited. Differentiated development contradictions in restoration areas were discussed, and corresponding ecological protection measures were proposed. An ecological security optimization pattern of ``one center, two wings, and two belts{''} was finally proposed to provide planning strategies for decision-makers.","USER-NOTES: {""shannon.clarke""=>[""talk about carbon fixation, forest lands, and seems like it could be urban""]} | RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included"", ""ericapadvaiskas""=>""Included"", ""Emily""=>""Included""} | USER-NOTES: {""Emily""=>[""Carbon fixation in different land use types (including woodland) was measured. Connectivity, ecological corridors, pinch points, and barriers were identified.""], ""Kayleigh""=>[""Discuss! Extraction will be difficult""]}",,Ecological security;Circuit theory;Ecological security patterns;Ecological restoration areas;Ecological services;Jinan;China,,
rayyan-879385448,Green infrastructure life cycle assessment: A bio-infiltration case study,2013,6,,ECOLOGICAL ENGINEERING,0925-8574,55,,9-22,"Flynn, Kevin M. and Traver, Robert G.",,English,ELSEVIER,"RADARWEG 29, 1043 NX AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS","This paper presents life cycle assessment (LCA) as a methodology to evaluate environmental, economic, and social performance of green infrastructure stormwater control measures (SCMs). A case study examining a bio-infiltration rain garden at the Villanova University Campus is offered to demonstrate this methodology. The scope of this analysis is cradle to grave benefits and impacts of green infrastructure. Metrics used in this case study to evaluate benefits and impacts include carbon footprint (global warming potential), acidification potential, human health cancer impact, human health non-cancer impact, respiratory effects, eutrophication potential, ozone depletion potential, eco-toxicity, smog formation potential, labor impacts, and life cycle economic costs. Results of this bio-infiltration rain garden case study show that the construction phase is the main contributing life cycle phase for all adverse environmental impacts, as well as total life cycle cost and labor impacts. The majority of these construction phase environmental impacts are attributed to the use of silica sand as a soil amendment for the rain garden media and the use of bark mulch to provide ground cover, repress invasive vegetation, and establish target vegetation. The bio-infiltration rain garden operation phase was found to provide significant avoided environmental impacts relative to the construction phase impacts. These avoided impacts are attributed to urban forest benefits from rain garden vegetation, benefits due to stormwater runoff pollutant treatment by the practice, and benefits to combined sewer systems due to reduced stormwater volume through infiltration and evapo-transpiration. Consideration of multiple rain garden decommissioning phase scenarios makes a case to support the onsite reuse on rain garden media at the end of the practice life. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.","USER-NOTES: {""Kayleigh""=>[""Will include, rain garden piece mentions urban forest vegetation. Not clear if it will include trees, will tend towards inclusion""]} | RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included"", ""ericapadvaiskas""=>""Included"", ""Emily""=>""Included""} | USER-NOTES: {""Emily""=>[""Includes measurements of carbon sequestration of trees in an urban rain garden.""]}",,Green infrastructure;Green stormwater infrastructure (GSI);Life cycle assessment (LCA);Stormwater Stormwater control measure (SCM);Best management practice (BMP);Carbon footprint;Global warming;Villanova;Villanova University;Philadelphia;Green city;Tocopherols,,
rayyan-879385451,"Quantifying the indirect effects of urbanization on urban vegetation carbon uptake in the megacity of Shanghai, China",2021,6,,ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH LETTERS,1748-9326,16,6,,"Wei, Shuyun and Chen, Qiuji and Wu, Wanben and Ma, Jun",,English,IOP PUBLISHING LTD,"TEMPLE CIRCUS, TEMPLE WAY, BRISTOL BS1 6BE, ENGLAND","Urbanization causes the expansion of urban land and changes to urban environments, both of which have significant impacts on the carbon uptake of urban vegetation. Although previous studies have proposed that the impact of the changes in the environmental conditions of vegetation carbon uptake by urban expansion are generally indirect, the processes of this impact are still unclear. In this study, we quantified the indirect effects of urbanization on urban vegetation carbon uptake for unchanged vegetation areas. We extracted unchanged vegetation areas based on multisource remote sensing data from the Google Earth Engine cloud computing platform. The influence of urbanization on vegetation carbon uptake and urban environmental factors in 2004, 2010, and 2016 along with the urban-rural gradient was calculated. In addition, we investigated the relative contribution of urban environmental factors to vegetation carbon uptake to study the relationship between them using a boosted regression tree method. The results showed that urbanization promoted vegetation carbon uptake, which varied with different years in Shanghai. Besides, the promoting effect of urbanization on the carbon uptake of vegetation was mainly due to the increase in temperature and the fragmentation of vegetation landscape patterns in Shanghai. The changes of soil moisture and radiation had little effect on the vegetation carbon uptake. Among the influencing factors, the relative contribution of the vegetation landscape pattern to vegetation carbon uptake was about 85\%. Considering the crucial role of landscape patterns in the carbon uptake of vegetation, urban managers should consider reducing the negative influence of urbanization on vegetation through landscape design, which will further promote the sustainable development of urban ecology.","USER-NOTES: {""shannon.clarke""=>[""looks good, only question is whether the \""vegetation\"" is woody/trees""]} | RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included"", ""ericapadvaiskas""=>""Included"", ""Emily""=>""Included""} | USER-NOTES: {""Emily""=>[""Unclear whether/how much the \""vegetation\"" the study was done on included tree species. BUT since the scale is so large, it must contain trees, so we're good.""]}",,urbanization;unchanged vegetation areas;carbon uptake;environmental factors;indirect effect;China;Megestrol Acetate;Vegetables,,
rayyan-879385457,Assessing the sensitivity of urban ecosystem service maps to input spatial data resolution and method choice,2018,7,,LANDSCAPE AND URBAN PLANNING,0169-2046,175,,11-22,"Zhao, Chang and S and er, Heather A.",,English,ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV,"PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS","Ecosystem service (ES) mapping frequently uses secondary data and value-transfer methods to map services over broad extents at coarse resolutions, possibly causing poor prediction accuracy. Although ES map quality has received some recent attention in the literature, little is known about the accuracy of these maps in urban contexts or about the factors that influence this accuracy. To address this issue, we quantitatively compared and validated ES maps in a heterogeneous urban landscape to generate insight into ES map accuracy in these environments. Using aboveground biomass carbon storage as an example, we examined how input data resolution and assessment method affect the accuracy of urban ES maps. Two mapping methods were employed: (1) maps based on ecosystem components involved in carbon storage (trees and lawns) and (2) maps based on land-cover proxies and data at coarse and fine spatial resolutions. We compared carbon storage predicted by these methods to that estimated by using field-collected data to examine the accuracy of predictions and spatial variation therein. Different methods and data produced similar study area-wide estimates; however, the spatial distribution of estimates varied among methods. Estimates using ecosystem components agreed with the actual observations better than the proxy-based estimates, although map accuracy was improved by using higher resolution land-cover data. Thus, when study area-wide estimates suffice for decision making, proxy-based methods and coarse-resolution data should provide adequate assessments. Detailed ecosystem structure and composition data are needed when fine-resolution, spatially-explicit estimates are required.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included"", ""Emily""=>""Included"", ""Danielle""=>""Included""} | USER-NOTES: {""Emily""=>[""This is a comparison of the accuracy of different models of carbon storage. It does contain some city-wide estimates of carbon storage. Study is urban, has to do with the urban forest, measures carbon storage""], ""Danielle""=>[""Measured carbon storage of trees and lawns ""]}",,Ecosystem services;Mapping;Accuracy;Validation;Carbon storage;Urban forest,,
rayyan-879385471,Analyzing the provision of ecosystem services by conservation easements and other protected and non-protected areas in the Upper Chattahoochee Watershed,2020,5,,SCIENCE OF THE TOTAL ENVIRONMENT,0048-9697,717,,,"Benez-Secanho, Fabio Jose and Dwivedi, Puneet",,English,ELSEVIER,"RADARWEG 29, 1043 NX AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS","A conservation easement (CE) legally places a permanent restriction on the development of a private land parcel, and in turn, can provide tax benefits to the landowner. We used the modular tool set InVEST (Integrated Valuation of Ecosystem Services and Trade offs) to quantify provision of five ecosystem services (ESs) (carbon storage, wildlife habitat quality, nitrogen, phosphorus, and sediment exports) provided by CEs and other land typologies (Simulated Parcels, 1 km Buffer area, Watershed Average, Federal, State and Local Protected Areas) within the Upper Chattahoochee Watershed (UCW), which provides 72\% of drinking water to about six million residents of the Atlanta Metropolitan Area and is experiencing one of fastest urban growth of the United States. Simulated Parcels would represent the land cover of CEs if the development restrictions were not in place. We conducted the analysis for 2001, 2006, 2011 and 2016. We aggregated all ESs into one index. Overall, CEs provided higher levels of ESs relative to the Simulated Parcels, 1 km Buffer, Watershed Average, and Local Protected Areas. However, the ESs from as were lower relative to Federal and State Protected Areas. Our results suggest that CEs are effective in ensuring the continuance of ESs within the UCW. (C) 2020 Published by Elsevier B.V.","USER-NOTES: {""shannon.clarke""=>[""mentions carbon storage and ecosystem services. area is urbanizing, but not sure if the study is done in an urban area per se""]} | RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included"", ""ericapadvaiskas""=>""Included"", ""Danielle""=>""Included""} | USER-NOTES: {""Danielle""=>[""Some sites are in urban areas, shows how improved forest management of can increase carbon storage. Carbon storage is broken down into Carbon pools which include woody species. ""]}",,Conservation planning;Ecosystem services modeling;Sustainable watershed management;Environmental decision making,,
rayyan-879385484,"Embedding spatiotemporal changes in carbon storage into urban agglomeration ecosystem management - A case study of the Yangtze River Delta, China",2019,11,,JOURNAL OF CLEANER PRODUCTION,0959-6526,237,,,"Gao, Jing and Wang, Lucang",,English,ELSEVIER SCI LTD,"THE BOULEVARD, LANGFORD LANE, KIDLINGTON, OXFORD OX5 1GB, OXON, ENGLAND","Changes in land use/land cover caused by urban expansion have changed the soil respiration conditions and surface vegetation, which, in turn, affect carbon storage in an ecosystem. Carbon storage is often used as an indicator of the state of ecosystem services in the environment, which provide fundamental support to the human population. Therefore, we predicted the impacts of different development models on future carbon storage in the Yangtze River Delta (YRD) region by analyzing the spatiotemporal evolution patterns and driving factors of carbon storage from 1990 to 2015. Taking the YRD urban agglomeration as a case study, the Integrated Valuation of Ecosystem Services and Trade-offs and future land use simulation models were used to simulate and predict carbon storage in 2050 under four development scenarios based on the patterns in 2015. The results showed that the YRD urban agglomeration experienced carbon storage losses of 1210.54 Tg during 1990-2015, which were driven by socioeconomic factors rather than natural causes. The region is expected to continue experiencing losses of 783, 638, 697, and 621 Tg from 2015 to 2050 under the baseline, slow, fast, and harmonious development scenarios, respectively. Our study presents the past spatiotemporal evolution of carbon stocks and the impact of different urbanization development models on ecosystem carbon storage, and can provide a reference for decision-making and stakeholders to determine regional development models and improve urban agglomeration management strategies. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.","USER-NOTES: {""shannon.clarke""=>[""surface vegetation and carbon storage.""]} | RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,Carbon storage;Driving factor;Scenario analysis;Urban agglomeration,,
rayyan-879385487,"ECOPHYSIOLOGICAL ATTRIBUTES OF THE NATIVE ACER-SACCHARUM AND THE EXOTIC ACER-PLATANOIDES IN URBAN OAK FORESTS IN PENNSYLVANIA, USA",1995,11,,TREE PHYSIOLOGY,0829-318X,15,11,739-746,"KLOEPPEL, BD and ABRAMS, MD",,English,OXFORD UNIV PRESS,"GREAT CLARENDON ST, OXFORD OX2 6DP, ENGLAND","When the exotic Acer platanoides L. (Norway maple) and the native A. saccharum Marsh. (sugar maple) grow together in the understories of urban Quercus forests in the eastern USA, average annual height growth increments are nearly twice as large in A. platanoides as in A. saccharum, 19.26 +/- 3.22 versus 10.01 +/- 1.69 cm. We examined several ecophysiological mechanisms that might be associated with the superior invasive ability and growth of A. platanoides in two urban oak forests in Pennsylvania. Leaf longevity was 12 days greater in AI platanoides than in A, saccharum. In addition, leaf mass/leaf area ratio was greater in A. platanoides than in A. saccharum (2.67 +/- 0.03 versus 2.32 +/- 0.02 mg cm(-2)); however, leaf thickness was significantly lower in A. platanoides than in A. saccharum suggesting that A. platanoides contains more dense palisade and mesophyll cell layers than A. saccharum. Field net photosynthesis (mass basis) and photosynthetic light response curves (area basis) indicated significantly greater carbon assimilation, and nitrogen and phosphorus use efficiencies in A. platanoides than in A. saccharum. Acer platanoides also exhibited higher water use efficiency than A. saccharum (0.88 +/- 0.12 versus 0.32 +/- 0.09 mmol CO2 mol(-1) H2O). Acer platanoides exhibited significantly lower osmotic potentials than A. saccharum, but a similar relative water content at zero turgor. We conclude that A. platanoides utilizes light, water and nutrients more efficiently than A. saccharum.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,HEIGHT GROWTH;LEAF STRUCTURE;NORWAY MAPLE;PHOTOSYNTHESIS;SUGAR MAPLE;WATER RELATIONS;Pennsylvania,,
rayyan-879385489,Carbon and nitrogen storage in California sage scrub and non-native grassland habitats,2016,6,,JOURNAL OF ARID ENVIRONMENTS,0140-1963,129,,119-125,"Wheeler, Megan M. and Dipman, Madison M. and Adams, Tessa A. and Ruina, Annemieke V. and Robins, Colin R. and Meyer, III, Wallace M.",,English,ACADEMIC PRESS LTD- ELSEVIER SCIENCE LTD,"24-28 OVAL RD, LONDON NW1 7DX, ENGLAND","Human activity has altered global carbon and nitrogen cycles, leading to changes in global temperatures and plant communities. Because atmospheric carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) concentrations are affected by storage in terrestrial vegetation and soil, it is critical to understand how conversions from native to non-ative vegetation may alter the C and N storage potential of terrestrial landscapes. In this study, we compared C and N storage in native California sage scrub, non-native grassland, and recovering California sage scrub habitats in the spring and fall by determining the C and N content in aboveground biomass, litter, and surface soil. Significantly more C and N were stored in intact and recovering California sage scrub than in grassland habitats. Intact and recovering sage scrub did not differ significantly in C or N storage. Our results highlight that preserving and restoring California sage scrub habitat not only provides habitat for native biodiversity, but also increases carbon and nitrogen storage potential even without restoration to intact sage scrub. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.","USER-NOTES: {""Kayleigh""=>[""Unclear if urban, tended towards inclusion""], ""shannon.clarke""=>[""tend towards inclusion. unsure if in urban context, and unsure if woody. googled sage scrub, and it said there could be some woody or semi-woody species?""]} | RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,Habitat modification;Invaded shrubland;Invasive grass;Shrub biomass modeling;California;Nitrogen,,
rayyan-879385490,"Non-linearity impacts of landscape pattern on ecosystem services and their trade-offs: A case study in the City Belt along the Yellow River in Ningxia, China",2022,3,,ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS,1470-160X,136,,,"Lyu, Rongfang and Zhao, Wenpeng and Tian, Xiaolei and Zhang, Jianming",,English,ELSEVIER,"RADARWEG 29, 1043 NX AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS","Exploring the impacts of landscape pattern on ecosystem services (ESs) and their trade-offs could provide a new way to improve ESs without largely altering land use types. Using the City Belt along the Yellow River in Ningixa (CBYN) as a case study, we quantified five critical ESs (one provision service of crop production, three regulating services of carbon sequestration, nutrient retention and sand fixation, and one cultural service of recreational opportunity) in 1989-2019 through CASA model, InVEST model and empirical equations. Then we calculated landscape pattern metrics at landscape and class level through Fragstats 4.3 across multiple scales and quantified their impacts on each ES and ES trade-offs through random forest analysis, self-organizing mapping analysis and multivariable regression tree. The results suggested that 3 km is more suitable for analyzing the impacts of landscape pattern on ESs in the CBYN. The nonlinear relations between landscape pattern metrics and each ES were fitted with adjusted R2 ranging from 0.26 to 0.51, indicating the significant but limited impacts of landscape pattern on ESs. Specially, landscape-level metrics of CONTAG, SHDI and FRACMN have higher impacts on ESs than class-level ones. Significant synergies existed among agricultural production, carbon sequestration and nutrient retention, except in mountain region with higher or lower fragmentation. Sand fixation has synergy relations with the former three ESs, which would be altered in situations with higher or lower diversity. Our results provide a new direction for land use management to achieve high-quality development without largely altering existing land use situation.","USER-NOTES: {""shannon.clarke""=>[""ecosystem services withh carbon sequestration. unsure if look at trees separately or in an urban context.""]} | RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Emily""=>""Included""} | USER-NOTES: {""Emily""=>[""Urban, temperate, the effects of landscape characteristics on carbon sequestration\n""]}",,Ecosystem services;Trade-off and synergy;Landscape pattern;Nonlinearity;Spatial scale;China,,
rayyan-879385494,"Toward a carbon neutral campus: a scalable approach to estimate carbon storage and biosequestration, an example from University of Michigan",2021,8,,INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SUSTAINABILITY IN HIGHER EDUCATION,1467-6370,22,5,1108-1124,"Tonietto, Rebecca and O'Brien, Lara and Van Haitsma, Cyrus and Su, Chenyang and Blankertz, Nicole and Mosiniak, Hannah Grace Shaheen and Short, Caleb and Dawson, Heather Ann",,English,EMERALD GROUP PUBLISHING LTD,"HOWARD HOUSE, WAGON LANE, BINGLEY BD16 1WA, W YORKSHIRE, ENGLAND","Purpose The University of Michigan (U-M) is planning its course toward carbon neutrality. A key component in U-M carbon accounting is the calculation of carbon sinks via estimation of carbon storage and biosequestration on U-M landholdings. Here, this paper aims to compare multiple remote sensing methods across U-M natural lands and urban campuses to determine the accurate and efficient protocol for land assessment and ecosystem service valuation that other institutions may scale as relevant. Design/methodology/approach This paper tested three remote sensing methods to determine land use and land cover (LULC), namely, unsupervised classification, supervised classification and supervised classification incorporating delineated wetlands. Using confusion matrices, this paper tested remote sensing approaches to ground-truthed data, the paper obtained via field-based vegetation surveys across a subset of U-M landholdings. Findings In natural areas, supervised classification incorporating delineated wetlands was the most accurate and efficient approach. In urban settings, maps incorporating institutional knowledge and campus tree surveys better estimated LULC. Using LULC and literature-based carbon data, this paper estimated that U-M lands store 1.37-3.68 million metric tons of carbon and sequester 45,000-86,000 Mt CO(2)e/yr, valued at \$2.2m-\$4.3m annually (\$50/metric ton, social cost of carbon). Originality/value This paper compared methods to identify an efficient and accurate remote sensing methodology to identify LULC and estimate carbon storage, biosequestration rates and economic values of ecosystem services provided.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,Sustainability;Remote sensing;GIS;National wetlands inventory;Supervised LULC classification;Michigan,,
rayyan-879385505,"Analyzing spatio-temporal changes and trade-offs to support the supply of multiple ecosystem services in Beijing, China",2018,11,,ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS,1470-160X,94,1,117-129,"Sun, Xiao and Lu, Zhongming and Li, Feng and Crittenden, John C.",,English,ELSEVIER,"RADARWEG 29, 1043 NX AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS","Rapid urbanization has dramatically changed regional land use patterns and brought enormous pressures on ecosystem services (ESs). The assessment of the impact of urbanization on ESs is critical for sustainable urban planning and land policy in China. In this study, we used the Integrated Valuation of Ecosystem Services and Tradeoffs (InVEST) model to assess the changes in ESs based on land use patterns in Beijing from 1984 to 2015. A new comprehensive ecosystem service (CES) index was developed to spatially reflect the total supply of multiple ESs and provide references for policy makers. We further analyzed the trade-offs among various ESs through correlation analysis and designed five alternative scenarios to explore effective strategies which can improve the CES while simultaneously reducing trade-offs among different ESs in Beijing. The results showed that the average CES of Beijing decreased over the past 30 years. The ecological conservation region, which is located to the north and west of Beijing, had the best CES performance. Among the various ESs, services for water purification, soil erosion control, vegetable provision, and fruit provision increased, whereas services for carbon storage, water provision, habitat provision, and grain provision decreased from 1984 to 2015. It's worth noting that sediment export in Beijing showed no significant relationships with regulating and supporting services, which include carbon storage, water purification and habitat provision. To control soil erosion effectively, we should not only increase the area of afforestation but also plant trees on the steeper slopes. In addition, there is a major trade-off between food provision and regulating and supporting services. Vegetation restoration in both riparian zones and previously steep croplands can improve CES at the expense of reducing food provision. Moreover, forestry restoration is proved to be more effective than grass-based restoration. To reduce the trade-offs between food provision and regulating and supporting services and concurrently improve the CES, it is essential to increase the efficiency of food provision per unit area and develop urban vertical agriculture in Beijing.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,Land use change;Ecosystem services;Scenario;Trade-offs;China,,
rayyan-879385509,Land-cover change and environmental impact analysis in the Greater Mankato area of Minnesota using remote sensing and GIS modelling,2008,,,INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF REMOTE SENSING,0143-1161,29,4,1169-1184,"Yuan, F.",,English,TAYLOR \& FRANCIS LTD,"4 PARK SQUARE, MILTON PARK, ABINGDON OX14 4RN, OXON, ENGLAND","Land use and land-cover (LULC) data provide essential information for environmental management and planning. This research evaluates the land-cover change dynamics and their effects for the Greater Mankato Area of Minnesota using image classification and Geographic Information Systems (GIS) modelling in high-resolution aerial photography and QuickBird imagery. Results show that from 1971 to 2003, urban impervious surfaces increased from 18.3\% to 32.6\%, while cropland and grassland decreased from 54.2\% to 39.1\%. The dramatic urbanization caused evident environmental impacts in terms of runoff and water quality, whereas the annual air pollution removal rate and carbon storage/sequestration remained consistent since urban forests were steady over the 32-year span. The results also indicate that highly accurate land-cover features can be extracted effectively from high-resolution imagery by incorporating both spectral and spatial information, applying an image-fusion technique, and utilizing the hierarchical machine-learning Feature Analyst classifier. This research fills the high-resolution LULC data gap for the Greater Mankato Area. The findings of the study also provide valuable inputs for local decision-makers and urban planners.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,Minnesota,,
rayyan-879385523,TREE SPECIES SELECTION GUIDELINES FROM THE PERSPECTIVE OF BIOCLIMATIC LANDSCAPE DESIGN,2018,,,SCIENTIFIC PAPERS-SERIES B-HORTICULTURE,2285-5653,62,,541-550,"Boc, Vladimir Ionut",,English,UNIV AGRICULTURAL SCIENCES \& VETERINARY MEDICINE BUCHAREST,"59 MARASTI BOULEVARD, DISTRICT 1, BUCHAREST, 011464, ROMANIA","In landscape architecture, numerous researches carried out in different climatic regions around the world show that arborescent vegetation has the most significant role in the improvement of microclimate. The study is focused on the adaptation and integration of human bioclimatology and bioclimatic design principles in planting and landscape design in order to develop tree species selection methods. Thus, in order to identify the most valuable tree species, a number of criteria have been identified considering the impact of trees on the main factors influencing microclimate, such as heat, wind speed, air humidity, light, air ionization and air quality. The results consist of a comparative analysis of tree species from the temperate continental plain area. A ranking of the species was generated considering their potential favourable impact on the microclimate as well as the eco-climatic resilience of the trees. The bioclimatic values of the analysed species were attributed according to biological and ecological characteristics such as tree habitus, canopy density, longevity, carbon storage capacity, air ionization level, resistance to wind, drought and air pollution, etc. The tree species were assessed by researching specialized dendrological studies and through field observations. The conclusions reveal the most valuable bioclimatic trees species, which are classified according to the way they can be used in different types of green areas.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,tree species selection;bioclimatic landscape design;urban microclimate improvement,,
rayyan-879385539,"Estimation of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Produced by Road Projects in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates",2019,4,,SUSTAINABILITY,2071-1050,11,8,,"Alzard, Mohammed H. and Maraqa, Munjed A. and Chowdhury, Rezaul and Khan, Qasim and Albuquerque, Francisco D. B. and Mauga, Timur Ibrahim and Aljunadi, Khaled Nazmi",,English,MDPI,"ST ALBAN-ANLAGE 66, CH-4052 BASEL, SWITZERLAND","Assessing the current levels of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from road transportation projects allows for benchmarking and is essential for potential emissions reduction. The objective of this study was to estimate the GHG emissions associated with the construction and operation of three road casestwo primary roads and one secondary road networkin Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. The GHG emissions produced by the study cases were estimated using the RoadCO(2) estimation tool. Results showed that the total emissions (in kg CO(2)e/m(2)/y) range from 76 for the secondary road case to 1100 for the primary road cases. The operation phase is responsible for 94-98\% of these emissions; the construction phase is responsible for the rest. Road works contributed the most to GHG emissions during the construction phase. The contribution of the remaining categories of the construction phase fluctuates within a certain case and among the considered cases. The equipment used in the construction phase for the three cases contributed 15-70\% of the total phase emissions, while the remaining emissions were due to construction materials. In the operation phase, emissions were mainly generated by vehicle movement. Street lighting also contributed to emissions during the operation phase. On the other hand, the irrigation of planted trees along the road had a very low impact on GHG emissions, and carbon sequestration by these trees had a negligible effect in terms of acting as a carbon sink. The results obtained from this study were compared with other cases reported in the literature.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Emily""=>""Included""} | USER-NOTES: {""Emily""=>[""Temperate. Mostly focuses on carbon emissions, but there's a measurement of carbon sequestration by roadside trees. Urban. ""]}",,greenhouse gases;road lifecycle;RoadCO(2);road construction;road operation;Arabs,,
rayyan-879385565,Spontaneous forest regrowth in South-West Europe: Consequences for nature's contributions to people,2020,12,,PEOPLE AND NATURE,,2,4,980-994,"Martin-Fores, Irene and Magro, S and ra and Bravo-Oviedo, Andres and Alfaro-Sanchez, Raquel and Espelta, Josep M. and Frei, Theresa and Valdes-Correcher, Elena and Rodriguez Fern and ez-Blanco, Carmen and Winkel, Georg and Gerzabek, Gabriel and Gonzalez-Martinez, Santiago C. and Hampe, Arndt and Valladares, Fern and o",,English,WILEY,"111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA","1. European forests are expanding and becoming denser following the widespread abandonment of farmland and rural areas. Spontaneous forest regrowth provides a cost-effective opportunity to restore ecosystems, enhance multifunctionality and sustainability and mitigate climate change. Yet, little is known about the goods and services that such forests provide to people. We assessed the changes in nature's contributions to people (NCP) from spontaneous forest regrowth, i.e. forest expansion and densification, in South-West Europe. 2. We investigated 65 forest plots in four different landscapes with contrasting ecological and societal contexts. Two landscapes are located in rural areas undergoing human exodus and forest expansion and densification; the other two, in peri-urban areas with intense land use and forest densification but negligible expansion. For each forest plot, we estimated variables related to ten out of the 18 main NCP defined by the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES). Regulating and material NCP were addressed using variables measured in the field as proxies. Non-material NCP were studied through stakeholder interviews. 3. Our results show across the cases that forest expansion and densification are generally associated with greater climate regulation and energy provision. Changes in other NCP, especially in non-material ones, were strongly context-dependent. The social perception of spontaneous forest regrowth was primarily negative in rural areas and more positive in peri-urban landscapes. 4. Passive restoration through spontaneous forest expansion and densification can enhance regulating and material NCP, especially when adaptive management is applied. To optimise NCP and to increase the societal awareness of and interest in spontaneous forest regrowth, the effects of this process should be analysed in close coordination with local stakeholders to unveil and quantify the many and complex trade-offs involved in rural or peri-urban social perceptions.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,forest densification;forest expansion;passive restoration;rural abandonment;social perception;spontaneous forest regrowth;stakeholder;Europe,,
rayyan-879385570,"Terrestrial carbon stocks across a gradient of urbanization: a study of the Seattle, WA region",2011,2,,GLOBAL CHANGE BIOLOGY,1354-1013,17,2,783-797,"Hutyra, Lucy R. and Yoon, Byungman and Alberti, Marina",,English,WILEY,"111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA","Most of our global population and its CO2 emissions can be attributed to urban areas. The process of urbanization changes terrestrial carbon stocks and fluxes, which, in turn, impact ecosystem functions and atmospheric CO2 concentrations. Using the Seattle, WA, region as a case study, this paper explores the relationships between aboveground carbon stocks and land cover within an urbanizing area. The major objectives were to estimate aboveground live and dead terrestrial carbon stocks across multiple land cover classes and quantify the relationships between urban cover and vegetation across a gradient of urbanization. We established 154 sample plots in the Seattle region to assess carbon stocks as a function of distance from the urban core and land cover {[}urban (heavy, medium, and low), mixed forest, and conifer forest land covers]. The mean (and 95\% CI) aboveground live biomass for the region was 89 +/- 22 Mg C ha-1 with an additional 11.8 +/- 4 Mg C ha-1 of coarse woody debris biomass. The average live biomass stored within forested and urban land covers was 140 +/- 40 and 18 +/- 14 Mg C ha-1, respectively, with a 57\% mean vegetated canopy cover regionally. Both the total carbon stocks and mean vegetated canopy cover were surprisingly high, even within the heavily urbanized areas, well exceeding observations within other urbanizing areas and the average US forested carbon stocks. As urban land covers and populations continue to rapidly increase across the globe, these results highlight the importance of considering vegetation in urbanizing areas within the terrestrial carbon cycle.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,carbon cycle;climate change;development;mitigation;Pacific Northwest;urban,,
rayyan-879385579,Pollution mitigation and carbon sequestration by an urban forest,2002,,,ENVIRONMENTAL POLLUTION,0269-7491,116,1,S195-S200,"Brack, CL",,English,ELSEVIER SCI LTD,"THE BOULEVARD, LANGFORD LANE, KIDLINGTON, OXFORD OX5 1GB, OXON, ENGLAND","At the beginning of the 1900s, the Canberra plain was largely treeless. Graziers had carried out extensive clearing of the original trees since the 1820s leaving only scattered remnants and some plantings near homesteads. With the selection of Canberra as the site for the new capital of Australia, extensive tree plantings began in 1911. These trees have delivered a number of benefits, including aesthetic values and the amelioration of climatic extremes. Recently, however, it was considered that the benefits might extend to pollution mitigation and the sequestration of carbon. This paper outlines a case study of the value of the Canberra urban forest with particular reference to pollution mitigation. This study uses a tree inventory, modelling and decision support system developed to collect and use data about trees for tree asset management. The decision support system (DISMUT) was developed to assist in the management of about 400,000 trees planted in Canberra. The size of trees during the 5-year Kyoto Commitment Period was estimated using DISMUT and multiplied by estimates of value per square meter of canopy derived from available literature. The planted trees are estimated to have a combined energy reduction, pollution mitigation and carbon sequestration value of US\$20-67 million during the period 2008-2012. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.","Advances in Terrestrial Ecosystem: Carbon Inventory, Measurements, and Monitoring Conference, RALEIGH, NC, OCT 03-05, 2000 | RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Emily""=>""Included"", ""Danielle""=>""Included""} | USER-NOTES: {""Emily""=>[""Urban, temperate, forest management, climate solution""]}",,carbon sequestration;urban forest;tree asset management;forest value;Trees,,
rayyan-879385581,"Effects of rapid urban sprawl on urban forest carbon stocks: Integrating remotely sensed, GIS and forest inventory data",2012,12,,JOURNAL OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT,0301-4797,113,,447-455,"Ren, Yin and Yan, Jing and Wei, Xiaohua and Wang, Yajun and Yang, Yusheng and Hua, Lizhong and Xiong, Yongzhu and Niu, Xiang and Song, Xiaodong",,English,ACADEMIC PRESS LTD- ELSEVIER SCIENCE LTD,"24-28 OVAL RD, LONDON NW1 7DX, ENGLAND","Research on the effects of urban sprawl on carbon stocks within urban forests can help support policy for sustainable urban design. This is particularly important given climate change and environmental deterioration as a result of rapid urbanization. The purpose of this study was to quantify the effects of urban sprawl on dynamics of forest carbon stock and density in Xiamen, a typical city experiencing rapid urbanization in China. Forest resource inventory data collected from 32,898 patches in 4 years (1972, 1988, 1996 and 2006), together with remotely sensed data (from 1988, 1996 and 2006), were used to investigate vegetation carbon densities and stocks in Xiamen, China. We classified the forests into four groups: (1) forest patches connected to construction land; (2) forest patches connected to farmland; (3) forest patches connected to both construction land and farmland and (4) close forest patches. Carbon stocks and densities of four different types of forest patches during different urbanization periods in three zones (urban core, suburb and exurb) were compared to assess the impact of human disturbance on forest carbon. In the urban core, the carbon stock and carbon density in all four forest patch types declined over the study period. In the suburbs, different urbanization processes influenced forest carbon density and carbon stock in all four forest patch types. Urban sprawl negatively affected the surrounding forests. In the exurbs, the carbon stock and carbon density in all four forest patch types tended to increase over the study period. The results revealed that human disturbance played the dominant role in influencing the carbon stock and density of forest patches close to the locations of human activities. In forest patches far away from the locations of human activities, natural forest regrowth was the dominant factor affecting carbon stock and density. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,Urban sprawl;Urban forest carbon dynamics;Forestry resource inventory;Remotely sensed;Human disturbance;Land-use and land-cover change;Trees,,
rayyan-879385583,Biogenic volatile organic compound emissions in relation to plant carbon fixation in a subtropical urban-rural complex,2013,11,,LANDSCAPE AND URBAN PLANNING,0169-2046,119,,74-84,"Guo, Peipei and Guo, Kejian and Ren, Yuan and Shi, Yan and Chang, Jie and Tani, Akira and Ge, Ying",,English,ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV,"PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS","Changes in vegetation coverage and species composition have contributed to the alteration in biogenic volatile organic compounds (BVOC) emissions, which are regarded as losses of photosynthetically fixed carbon. This study estimates the amount of BVOCs carbon emitted in relation to carbon fixation for the built-up areas and rural forests in a subtropical urban-rural complex. Urban greenspace was subdivided into block greenspace and linear greenspace, while rural areas were characterized by four forest types. A field survey was conducted to assess the vegetation composition, biomass and foliar mass for each tree species. Results showed (1) the emissions intensity of BVOC in the greater Ningbo area is 4.48 x 10(6) g C km(-2) yr(-1), the average emission intensity of the greenspace in the built-up areas (2.86 x 10(6) g C km(-2) yr(-1)) is higher than rural forests excluding bamboo forest (2.66 x 10(6) g C km(-2) yr(-1)); (2) the contribution of carbon emitted as BVOCs to net primary production (NPP) (BVOCs/NPP ratio) is about 4.3\%, with 1.8\% for the built-up areas which is lower than that for rural forests including bamboo forest (4.4\%), but higher than rural forests excluding bamboo forest (0.96\%); (3) the BVOCs/NPP ratio between native and exotic tree species exhibits no significant difference. The results suggest that BVOC emissions can be reduced while carbon sequestration can be increased by planting trees with low-emitting but high carbon fixation capacity in built-up areas, and by reducing bamboo forest while restoring broad-leaved forest in rural forests. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,Greenspace;Tree;Forest;Isoprene;Monoterpenes,,
rayyan-879385586,Mapping forest structure and uncertainty in an urban area using leaf-off lidar data,2017,4,,URBAN ECOSYSTEMS,1083-8155,20,2,497-509,"Gu, Huan and Townsend, Philip A.",,English,SPRINGER,"VAN GODEWIJCKSTRAAT 30, 3311 GZ DORDRECHT, NETHERLANDS","Forests are important to nutrient cycling, hydrology, climate and aesthetics in urban ecosystems. Effective forest management in urban environments requires detailed data on the spatial distribution and structure of urban forests, but the lidar which are best for mapping the complexity of these forests are often unavailable or prohibitively expensive for municipalities. However, leaf-off small footprint lidar originally collected for topographic mapping are increasingly available, and will soon become accessible to forest managers in the U.S. through 3DEP (3D Elevation Program). In this paper, we demonstrated the opportunistic use of existing leaf-off lidar to map forest structure and associated uncertainties in Madison, Wisconsin and neighboring municipalities. Using empirical models, we were able to map five structural variables and aboveground biomass with accuracies comparable to or better than other studies using comparable data and with errors generally < 20 \% of the data range. Highest uncertainties in our forest structure maps occurred in residential neighborhoods and along forest edges. From the results, we present maps of forest structure and, to our knowledge, first of a kind pixel-wise uncertainty maps for an urban area. These maps provide the basis for a spatially comprehensive assessment of forest resources and are effective for urban inventory and change assessment. For example, the maps enabled comprehensive comparison of carbon storage by urban trees among cities, with a range in our study of 1.2 kg/m(2) to 5.6 kg/m(2), and with major variations due to differences in city development patterns and ages.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,Urban forests;Forest structure;Uncertainty;Leaf-off lidar;Carbon storage,,
rayyan-879385596,"Volumetric equation development and carbon storage estimation of urban forest in Daejeon, Korea",2018,,,FOREST SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY,2158-0103,14,2,97-104,"Park, Jeong Ho and Baek, Saeng Geul and Kwon, Min Young and Je, Sun Mi and Woo, Su Young",,English,TAYLOR \& FRANCIS LTD,"2-4 PARK SQUARE, MILTON PARK, ABINGDON OR14 4RN, OXON, ENGLAND","This study was performed to develop equations which are suitable for estimating carbon storage of urban forest in Daejeon, Korea and to evaluate carbon storage and sequestration of urban forest using developed equations. Among the urban forest, we only concern about the major street tree species (Platanus occidentalis, Ginko biloba, Zelkova serrata, Chionanthus retusa, and Acer pseudosieboldianum) which are planted alongside a road for vehicles as well as pedestrian in urban area. Developed equations showed R-2 of 0.93 (Z. serrata), 0.67 (P. occidentalis), 0.96 (G. biloba), 0.93 (C. retusa), and 0.88 (A. pseudo-sieboldianum) when they were derived from diameter at breath height (DBH). Using the DBH-volume equation, the five street tree species (P. occidentalis, G. biloba, Z. serrata, C. retusa, and A. pseudo-sieboldianum), which account for 70\% of total street trees in the Daejeon, stored about 4290 tons of carbon. Among the five street tree species, P. occidentalis constituted more than 50\% of total stored carbon and followed by G. biloba. Based on the carbon storage, five street tree species can sequestrate 216 tons of carbon annually which means that 793 tons of carbon dioxide (CO2) removal from the air every year.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,Carbon sequestration;carbon dioxide;street tree;urban forest;volumetric equation;Korea;Trees,,
rayyan-879385598,Sustainable Management of Metasequoia glyptostroboides Plantation Forests in Shanghai,2018,2,,FORESTS,,9,2,,"Zheng, Ji and Blanco, Juan A. and Wei, Xiaohua and Liu, Chunjiang",,English,MDPI,"ST ALBAN-ANLAGE 66, CH-4052 BASEL, SWITZERLAND","Urban forestry is increasingly used as a tool for climate change mitigation and for providing environmental services to inhabitants of urban areas. However, tree species used in urban forestry are usually different from the ones used in commercial forestry. As a consequence, available data on growth and yield under alternative management scenarios are usually scarce. As forest models can be used to explore potential forest futures, they are of special interest as decision-support tools in urban forestry. In this research, we used the FORECAST ecosystem-level forest model to define the management prescriptions for Metasequoia glyptostroboides plantations in Shanghai that reach the highest net primary productivity (NPP). In a first step, a battery of different stand densities (from 500 to 4000 stems ha(-1)) was used to identify those with the highest NPP at stand level. Then, different thinning regimes (with intensities ranging from 15\% to 40\% of trees removed and applied at stand age 5 to 20 years) were simulated on those initial densities with the highest NPP (3000 and 4000 stems ha(-1)). Planting 4000 stems ha(-1) and not applying thinning achieved the highest annual NPP (14.39 +/- 3.92 Mg ha(-1) yr(-1)) during the first rotation, but it was not significantly different from the NPP achieved with the same initial density but thinning 40\% of trees at year 10. NPP was estimated to decrease with consecutive rotations, and for the second rotation thinning was needed to significantly increase NPP (10.11 +/- 2.59 Mg ha(-1) yr(-1) with 4000 stems ha(-1) and 25\% thinning at year 10) above non-thinning management. For the third rotation, the highest NPP was reached with initial density 3000 stems ha(-1) and 25\% thinning at year 10. Nitrogen flows were also estimated to decrease with consecutive rotations. These results indicate the potential of managing M. glyptostroboides urban plantations to reach their maximum productivity potential, but also that additional actions would be needed to ensure adequate nutrient levels over consecutive rotations. For a species such as M. glyptostroboides, which was discovered for science less than 70 years ago and for which no plantations over 50 years exist, the ecosystem-level FORECAST model has been shown as a suitable tool to support management decision when growth and yield data are not available.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,urban forest;FORECAST model;tree densities;thinning treatment;NPP;Trees,,
rayyan-879385600,"Above-ground carbon storage by urban trees in Leipzig, Germany: Analysis of patterns in a European city",2012,1,,LANDSCAPE AND URBAN PLANNING,0169-2046,104,1,95-104,"Strohbach, Michael W. and Haase, Dagmar",,English,ELSEVIER,"RADARWEG 29, 1043 NX AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS","Many aspects of global change, including carbon dioxide emissions, have been attributed to urban areas. On the other hand, cities have been found to provide valuable ecosystem services such as carbon storage. The aim of this study is to estimate the above-ground carbon storage in trees in the central European city of Leipzig and produce spatially explicit carbon storage maps. We used stratified random sampling across 19 land cover classes using 190 sample plots to measure carbon storage. In addition, we derived canopy cover from color-infrared orthophotos using an object-oriented approach and Random Forest machine learning. Finally, we apply an error assessment method that includes sampling error, but also uncertainty stemming from allometric equations, and that so far has only been applied to rural forests. The total above ground carbon stock of Leipzig was estimated using both land cover and canopy cover, which was more laborious than just using land cover but reduced the standard error. Canopy cover was approximately 19\% of the city area. Leipzig's above-ground carbon storage was estimated to be 316,000 Mg C at 11 Mg C ha(-1). The distribution of carbon storage across the city showed the highest values at intermediate urbanization levels. Carbon storage in the city of Leipzig was in the lower range compared to cities in Europe, Asia and the USA, and our results indicate that great care should be taken when transferring values between cities. We provide spatially explicit and detailed maps of above-ground storage that can contribute to ecosystem services assessments. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,Urban forest ecosystem services;Land cover;Canopy cover;Random Forest classifier;Germany,,
rayyan-879385604,"Urban forest structure, ecosystem services and change in Syracuse, NY",2016,12,,URBAN ECOSYSTEMS,1083-8155,19,4,1455-1477,"Nowak, David J. and Hoehn, Robert E. and Bodine, Allison R. and Greenfield, Eric J. and O'Neil-Dunne, Jarlath",,English,SPRINGER,"VAN GODEWIJCKSTRAAT 30, 3311 GZ DORDRECHT, NETHERLANDS","The tree population within the City of Syracuse was assessed using a random sampling of plots in 1999, 2001 and 2009 to determine how the population and the ecosystem services these trees provide have changed over time. Ecosystem services and values for carbon sequestration, air pollution removal and changes in building energy use were derived using the i-Tree Eco model. In addition, photo interpretation of aerial images was used to determine changes in tree cover between the mid-1990s and 2009. Between the mid-1990s and 2003, tree cover in Syracuse exhibited a decline from 27.5 to 25.9 \%, but subsequently increased to 26.9 \% by 2009. The total tree population exhibited a similar pattern, dropping from 881,000 trees in 1999 to 862,000 in 2001, and then increasing to 1,087,000 trees in 2009. Most of this increase in the urban tree population is due to invasive or pioneer trees species, particularly Rhamnus cathartica, which has more than tripled in population between 2001 and 2009. Insects such as gypsy moth and emerald ash borer pose a substantial risk to altering future urban forest composition. The annual ecosystem services provided by the urban forest in relation to carbon sequestration, air pollution removal and reduction in building energy use are estimated at about \$2.4 million per year. An improved understanding of urban forests and how they are changing can facilitate better management plans to sustain ecosystem services and desired forest structure for future generations.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,Urban forest sampling;i-Tree;Urban forest monitoring;Invasive plants;Invasive pests;Trees,,
rayyan-879385607,"Street Trees in a Chinese Forest City: Structure, Benefits and Costs",2018,3,,SUSTAINABILITY,2071-1050,10,3,,"Wang, Xueyan and Yao, Jing and Yu, Shuai and Miao, Chunping and Chen, Wei and He, Xingyuan",,English,MDPI,"ST ALBAN-ANLAGE 66, CH-4052 BASEL, SWITZERLAND","Street trees provide critical ecosystem services and economic benefits that are often disregarded, due to their unknown monetary value. This study analyzed the structural characteristics of Dalian's street trees and estimated the monetary value of structural and functional benefits by i-Tree Streets. Dalian's street trees encompassed 28 species and were dominated by Ginkgo biloba, Platanus acerifolia and Sophora japonica, comprising 64.1\% of a total of 57,699 trees. The age structure of street trees was distributed somewhat unevenly, with 18\% young trees, 56\% maturing trees, 25\% mature trees and 1\% old trees. These trees provide annual functional benefits valued at US\$4.9 million and delivered a benefit-cost ratio of 3.2:1. The largest values associated with energy savings and property value were \$1.7 million (\$29/tree) and \$1.5 million (\$25/tree), respectively. The net carbon reduction benefits were valued at \$935,205 (\$16/tree). Smaller benefits resulted from air quality improvement (\$381,088 or \$7/tree) and stormwater runoff (\$459,457 or \$8/tree). The structural benefits were valued at \$130 million, with the value of \$4.5 million for carbon storage. These findings suggested that the benefits produced by street trees were worth the management costs. Our results provide a thorough understanding of the benefits produced by street trees to policy-makers and managers, and help them make informed policies to maximize and sustain the flow of benefits.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,i-Tree Streets;ecosystem services;functional value;structural value;benefit-cost ratio;Cost-Benefit Analysis;Trees,,
rayyan-879385611,Continuous measurements of net CO2 exchange by vegetation and soils in a suburban landscape,2012,7,,JOURNAL OF GEOPHYSICAL RESEARCH-BIOGEOSCIENCES,2169-8953,117,,,"Peters, Emily B. and McFadden, Joseph P.",,English,AMER GEOPHYSICAL UNION,"2000 FLORIDA AVE NW, WASHINGTON, DC 20009 USA","In a suburban neighborhood of Minneapolis-Saint Paul, Minnesota, USA, we simultaneously measured net CO2 exchange of trees using sap flow and leaf gas exchange measurements, net CO2 exchange of a turfgrass lawn using eddy covariance from a portable tower, and total surface-atmosphere CO2 fluxes (F-C) using an eddy covariance system on a tall tower. Two years of continuous measurements showed that net CO2 exchange varied among vegetation types, with the largest growing-season (Apr-Nov) net CO2 uptake on a per cover area basis from evergreen needleleaf trees (-603 g C m(-2)), followed by deciduous broadleaf trees (-216 g C m(-2)), irrigated turfgrass (-211 g C m(-2)), and non-irrigated turfgrass (-115 g C m(-2)). Vegetation types showed seasonal patterns of CO2 exchange similar to those observed in natural ecosystems. Scaled-up net CO2 exchange from vegetation and soils (F-C(VegSoil)) agreed closely with landscape F-C measurements from the tall tower at times when fossil fuel emissions were at a minimum. Although F-C(VegSoil) did not offset fossil fuel emissions on an annual basis, the temporal pattern of F-C(VegSoil) did significantly alter the seasonality of F-C. Total growing season F-C(VegSoil) in recreational land-use areas averaged -165 g C m(-2) and was dominated by turfgrass CO2 exchange (representing 77\% of the total), whereas F-C(VegSoil) in residential areas averaged -124 g C m(-2) and was dominated by trees (representing 78\% of the total). Our results suggest urban vegetation types can capture much of the variability required to predict seasonal patterns and differences in F-C(VegSoil) that could result from changes in land use or vegetation composition in temperate cities.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""} | USER-NOTES: {""Danielle""=>[""focuses on CO2 flux seasonally and across vegetation types, pointing towards the the increase CO2 uptake of evergreen and deciduous trees, however does not make connection to urban forest management or proposes potential climate solutions from their findings. Include. ""]}",,Vegetables;Suburban Population,,
rayyan-879385618,Development of multi-functional streetscape green infrastructure using a performance index approach,2016,1,,ENVIRONMENTAL POLLUTION,0269-7491,208,,209-220,"Tiwary, A. and Williams, I. D. and Heidrich, O. and Namdeo, A. and B and aru, V. and Calfapietra, C.",,English,ELSEVIER SCI LTD,"THE BOULEVARD, LANGFORD LANE, KIDLINGTON, OXFORD OX5 1GB, OXON, ENGLAND","This paper presents a performance evaluation framework for streetscape vegetation. A performance index (PI) is conceived using the following seven traits, specific to the street environments - Pollution Flux Potential (PFP), Carbon Sequestration Potential (CSP), Thermal Comfort Potential (TCP), Noise Attenuation Potential (NAP), Biomass Energy Potential (BEP), Environmental Stress Tolerance (EST) and Crown Projection Factor (CPF). Its application is demonstrated through a case study using fifteen street vegetation species from the UK, utilising a combination of direct field measurements and inventoried literature data. Our results indicate greater preference to small-to-medium size trees and evergreen shrubs over larger trees for streetscaping. The proposed PI approach can be potentially applied two-fold: one, for evaluation of the performance of the existing street vegetation, facilitating the prospects for further improving them through management strategies and better species selection; two, for planning new streetscapes and multi-functional biomass as part of extending the green urban infrastructure. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""} | USER-NOTES: {""Danielle""=>[""develops and uses protocol for a performance index on urban forests. includes carbon sequestering.  ""]}",,Green infrastructure;Multi-functional;Pollution;Performance index;Streetscape,,
rayyan-879385627,A life cycle carbon dioxide inventory of the Million Trees Los Angeles program,2014,9,,INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF LIFE CYCLE ASSESSMENT,0948-3349,19,9,1653-1665,"McPherson, E. Gregory and Kendall, Alissa",,English,SPRINGER HEIDELBERG,"TIERGARTENSTRASSE 17, D-69121 HEIDELBERG, GERMANY","This study seeks to answer the question, ``Will the Million Trees LA (Million Trees Los Angeles, MTLA) program be a carbon dioxide (CO2) sink or source?{''} Because there has never been a full accounting of CO2 emissions, it is unclear if urban tree planting initiatives (TPIs) are likely to be effective means for reaching local reduction targets. Using surveys, interviews, field sampling, and computer simulation of tree growth and survival over a 40-year time period, we developed the first process-based life cycle inventory of CO2 for a large TPI. CO2 emissions and reductions from storage and avoided emissions from energy savings were simulated for 91,786 trees planted from 2006 to 2010, of which only 30,813 (33.6 \%) were estimated to survive. The MTLA program was estimated to release 17,048 and 66,360 t of fossil and biogenic CO2 over the 40-year period, respectively. The total amount emitted (83,408 t) was slightly more than the -77,942 t CO2 that trees were projected to store in their biomass. The MTLA program will be a CO2 sink if projected 40-year-avoided fossil fuel CO2 emissions from energy savings (-101,679 t) and biopower (-1,939 t) are realized. The largest sources of CO2 emissions were mulch decomposition (65.1 \%), wood combustion (14.5 \%), and irrigation water (9.7 \%). Although trees planted by the MTLA program are likely to be a net CO2 sink, there is ample opportunity to reduce emissions. Examples of these opportunities include selecting drought-tolerant trees and utilizing wood residue to generate electricity rather than producing mulch.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,Carbon footprint;Carbon sequestration;Climate change;Life cycle inventory;Tree planting;Urban forestry;Urban trees;Carbon Dioxide;Trees,,
rayyan-879385640,"Tree biomass, wood waste yield, and carbon storage changes in an urban forest",2014,7,,LANDSCAPE AND URBAN PLANNING,0169-2046,127,,18-27,"Timilsina, Nilesh and Staudhammer, Christina L. and Escobedo, Francisco J. and Lawrence, Alicia",,English,ELSEVIER,"RADARWEG 29, 1043 NX AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS","Urban tree biomass studies are important for estimating urban wood waste yield, carbon sequestration, and other ecosystem goods provided by urban forests. This study quantified urban tree wood waste yield and temporal changes in carbon storage for different land uses using data from permanent monitoring plots and locally developed urban tree and regional allometric biomass equations. Drivers influencing wood waste yields and carbon (C) sequestration were analyzed as was accuracy of available urban tree C storage models. We estimated annual urban tree stem and crown biomass removals at 2 Mega grams (Mg) per hectare, equivalent to approximately 5\% of the annual requirements of a 100 MegaWatt bioenergy plant. Urban tree C storage changes, or annual C sequestration, was 29,280 Mg which is equivalent to 5\% of all anthropogenic local C emissions in 2008 and twice as much as estimated by an available carbon sequestration model. Greater amounts of wood waste were generated in forests and commercial/institutional areas than residential areas, but differences were not significant and amount removed was only significantly related to the amount of impervious surfaces and maintained grass. Available urban tree C storage models can have errors of 40\%. Results can be used to estimate the potential annual supply of city-wide urban wood waste from management, maintenance, land clearing activities, and post-hurricane tree debris removal. Wood waste can be a sustainable urban forest ecosystem service and good; but tradeoffs such as esthetics, soil quality and community preferences should be accounted for as well. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""} | USER-NOTES: {""Danielle""=>[""This study has a lot of interesting data on carbon sequestering between tree species and land use type, but makes no recommendations for forest management to mitigate climate change and main focus is on using urban forest biomass waste as a biofuel. ""]}",,Ecosystem services and goods;Allometric equations;Green wood waste;Bioenergy;Carbon sequestration,,
rayyan-879385645,"A new approach to quantify and map carbon stored, sequestered and emissions avoided by urban forests",2013,12,,LANDSCAPE AND URBAN PLANNING,0169-2046,120,,70-84,"McPherson, E. Gregory and Xiao, Qingfu and Aguaron, Elena",,English,ELSEVIER,"RADARWEG 29, 1043 NX AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS","This paper describes the use of field surveys, biometric information for urban tree species and remote sensing to quantify and map carbon (C) storage, sequestration and avoided emissions from energy savings. Its primary contribution is methodological; the derivation and application of urban tree canopy (UTC) based transfer functions (t C ha(-1) UTC). Findings for Los Angeles and Sacramento illustrate the complex role of regional and local determinants. Although average tree density and size were substantially greater in Los Angeles, the mean C storage density (8.15 t ha(-1)) was 53 percent of Sacramento's (15.4 t ha(-1)). In Sacramento, native oaks with very high wood densities (815 kg m(-3)) accounted for 30 percent of total basal area. In Los Angeles, the most dominant taxa had relatively low wood densities (350-550 kg m(-3)). The inclusion of relatively more wooded land in the Sacramento study area may partially explain higher C storage levels. In Los Angeles, where development is relatively dense, 14 percent of all trees surveyed shaded more than one building compared to only 2 percent in Sacramento. Consequently, the transfer function for avoided emissions in Los Angeles (2.77 t ha(-1) UTC yr(-1)) exceeded Sacramento (2.72 t ha(-1) UTC yr(-1)). The approach described here improves C estimates and increases the resolution at which C can be mapped across a region. It can be used to map baseline C storage levels for climate action planning, identify conservation areas where UTC densities are highest and determine where opportunities for expanding UTC are greatest. Published by Elsevier B.V.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""} | USER-NOTES: {""Danielle""=>[""This paper has a lot of good data on differences in carbon sequestering between species but this data is not used to make any forest management recommendations for climate solution. ""]}",,Carbon density;Urban tree canopy;Transfer function;Urban forest structure;Wood density;Climate action planning;Trees,,
rayyan-879385655,"High carbon losses from established growing sites delay the carbon sequestration benefits of street tree plantings - A case study in Helsinki, Finland",2017,8,,URBAN FORESTRY \& URBAN GREENING,1618-8667,26,,85-94,"Riikonen, Anu and Pumpanen, Jukka and Maki, Mari and Nikinmaa, Eero",,English,ELSEVIER GMBH,"HACKERBRUCKE 6, 80335 MUNICH, GERMANY","We assessed the net carbon (C) sequestration dynamics of street tree plantings based on 10 years of measurements at two case study sites each with different tree species in Helsinki, Finland. We assessed C loss from tree soils and tree C accumulation, tested the applicability of pre-existing growth and biomass equations against observations, and estimated the time point for the beginning of net C sequestration for the studied street tree plantings. The tree woody biomass C accumulation in the first 10 years after planting was 18-32 kg per tree. At the same time the C loss from the growth media was at least 170 kg per growth media volume (25 m(3)) per tree. If this soil C loss was accounted for, the net C sequestration would begin, at best, approximately 30 years after planting. Biomass equations developed for traditional forests predicted more stem biomass and less leaf and branch biomass than measured for the species examined, but total aboveground biomass was generally well predicted.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,Carbon sequestration;Tree soil carbon;Tree biomass equations;Urban trees;Finland,,
rayyan-879385658,The influence of subdivision design and conservation of open space on carbon storage and sequestration,2014,11,,LANDSCAPE AND URBAN PLANNING,0169-2046,131,,64-73,"Vaughn, Richard M. and Hostetler, Mark and Escobedo, Francisco J. and Jones, Pierce",,English,ELSEVIER,"RADARWEG 29, 1043 NX AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS","Cities are increasingly trying to offset carbon dioxide emissions and existing and new residential developments, or urban subdivisions, are a major source of such emissions. Compact or clustered subdivision designs have the potential to improve carbon storage and sequestration through the conservation of open space and the preservation of existing trees found on built lots. However, very few empirical studies assess how different subdivision designs and tree preservation strategies affect the carbon footprint of proposed residential developments. Using a 705 ha pine plantation that has been approved for the development of 1835 residential units near Gainesville, Florida, our objectives were to determine which site designs and tree preservation strategies could maximize carbon sequestration and storage. From 80 stratified random plots, we measured and analyzed tree and plot characteristics according to forest type and tree stand age categories. Tree data collected from these plots were analyzed with the i-Tree ECO model to estimate baseline predevelopment carbon stores and sequestration rates. Using ArcMap, we then assessed the impact, on baseline carbon sequestration and storage capacity, of several different site designs and tree conservation scenarios for the proposed development. Up to 91\% of carbon storage and up to 82\% of carbon sequestration could be maintained through a cluster urban development design and by preserving older tree stands. Results indicate that a subdivision's carbon footprint can significantly improve when forest types and tree preservation are incorporated into the design of a development. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,Carbon storage;Carbon sequestration;Compact design;Forest type;Open space;Tree stand age,,
rayyan-879385662,Shade trees reduce building energy use and CO2 emissions from power plants,2002,,,ENVIRONMENTAL POLLUTION,0269-7491,116,1,S119-S126,"Akbari, H",,English,ELSEVIER SCI LTD,"THE BOULEVARD, LANGFORD LANE, KIDLINGTON, OXFORD OX5 1GB, OXON, ENGLAND","Urban shade trees offer significant benefits in reducing building air-conditioning demand and improving urban air quality by reducing smog. The savings associated with these benefits vary by climate region and can be up to \$200 per tree. The cost of planting trees and maintaining them can vary from \$10 to \$500 per tree. Tree-planting programs can be designed to have lower costs so that they offer potential savings to communities that plant trees. Our calculations suggest that urban trees play a major role in sequestering CO, and thereby delay global warming. We estimate that a tree planted in Los Angeles avoids the combustion of 18 kg of carbon annually, even though it sequesters only 4.5-11 kg (as it would if growing in a forest). In this sense, one shade tree in Los Angeles is equivalent to three to five forest trees. In a recent analysis for Baton Rouge, Sacramento, and Salt Lake City, we estimated that planting an average of four shade trees per house (each with a top view cross section of 50 m(2)) would lead to an annual reduction in carbon emissions from power plants of 16,000, 41,000, and 9000 t, respectively (the per-tree reduction in carbon emissions is about 10-11 kg per year). These reductions only account for the direct reduction in the net cooling- and heating-energy use of buildings. Once the impact of the community cooling is included, these savings are increased by at least 25\%. (C) 2001 Published by Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.","Advances in Terrestrial Ecosystem: Carbon Inventory Measurements and Monitoring Conference, RALEIGH, NORTH CAROLINA, OCT 03-05, 2000 | RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,shade trees;heating and cooling energy use;carbon sequestration;smog;cost-benefit analysis;heat islands,,
rayyan-879385675,Photosynthetic CO2 uptake and carbon sequestration potential of deciduous and evergreen tree species in an urban environment,2017,6,,URBAN ECOSYSTEMS,1083-8155,20,3,663-674,"Weissert, L. F. and Salmond, J. A. and Schwendenmann, L.",,English,SPRINGER,"VAN GODEWIJCKSTRAAT 30, 3311 GZ DORDRECHT, NETHERLANDS","Urban tree planting programmes are increasingly promoted as a way to reduce atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO2) mixing ratios. However, few studies have investigated the photosynthetic CO2 uptake potential of different urban tree species across seasons. In particular little is known about photosynthetic CO2 uptake in cities with a subtropical, oceanic climate where evergreen species are dominant. We addressed this shortcoming by measuring net photosynthetic rates of ten native and exotic tree species during different seasons and times of the day in Auckland, New Zealand. We also assessed the potential of leaf nitrogen (N) concentration as a proxy for net photosynthetic capacities of urban trees, which is of particular importance to upscale leaf-level photosynthetic CO2 uptake to local and regional scales. In addition, we compared measured net photosynthetic capacities (light-saturated net photosynthetic rates) with carbon (C) sequestration rates estimated using tree growth measurements and allometric equations. Mean net photosynthetic capacities ranged between 2.37 and 10.48 mu mol m(-2) s(-1) across all seasons and were closely related to tree C sequestration rates, suggesting that increased photosynthesis enhances growth rates and therefore tree C sequestration rates. Given that winter net photosynthetic capacities remained high in evergreen species (3.38-13.96 mu mol m(-2) s(-1)), with almost 50\% higher mean net photosynthetic capacity compared to summer across all species, we suggest that tree planting programmes for CO2 mitigation should favour long living evergreen tree species with high basal area increments (BAI). Leaf N explained 43\% and 57\% of the variability of photosynthetic capacities across species in summer and winter, respectively. These results indicate that leaf N may be used as a proxy for net photosynthetic capacities of commonly planted urban trees in Auckland. However, further research is required to provide robust models that may be used to estimate photosynthetic CO2 uptake at a local and urban scale.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,Allometric equations;Carbon sequestration;Urban greening;Leaf-level gas exchange;Leaf nitrogen;New Zealand;Trees,,
rayyan-879385682,Urban tree growth and ecosystem services under extreme drought,2021,10,,AGRICULTURAL AND FOREST METEOROLOGY,0168-1923,308,,,"Roetzer, T. and Moser-Reischl, A. and Rahman, M. A. and Hartmann, C. and Paeth, H. and Pauleit, S. and Pretzsch, H.",,English,ELSEVIER,"RADARWEG 29, 1043 NX AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS","Urban trees are supposed to have an important regulating function for the urban microclimate, carbon sequestration and a number of other ecosystem services. Vice versa, urban trees suffer from droughts that are typically enhanced within the urban heat island. In the present study, we examined how ecosystem services cooling and carbon sequestration by urban trees were impaired due to the extreme Central European drought periods in the years 2018 and 2019. The analysis was based on continuous measurements of tree growth, sap flow and meteorological characteristics along a transect of five sites of Tilia cordata and three sites of Robinia pseudoacacia spread over the urban area of Wurzburg, Germany. The biomass increment of both tree species was reduced up to 50 \% with respect to normal weather conditions, especially in the extreme drought year 2018. The studied tree species revealed contrasting growth strategies with T. cordata being more prone to droughts than R. pseudoacacia. Under drought conditions R. pseudoacacia showed twice as much carbon sequestration as T. cordata, which means that R. pseudoacacia is much more water use efficient than T. cordata. In drought years the water use efficiency increases up to 4.4 kg (kg H2O)(-1) for R. pseudoacacia, while it remains at 0.83-0.86 kg (kg H2O)(-1) for T. cordata. Whereas both species have shown substantially reduced transpiration rates in both years, T. cordata had a higher transpiration activity than R. pseudoacacia, Hence, T. cordata made a larger contribution to microclimatic cooling in drought and normal years. These findings are systematically depending on the specific sites within the urban area.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,Urban trees;Transpiration rate;Water use efficiency;Drought;Tilia cordata;Robinia pseudoacacia;Trees,,
rayyan-879385695,Estimating CO2 balance through the Life Cycle Assessment prism: A case - Study in an urban park,2021,1,,URBAN FORESTRY \& URBAN GREENING,1618-8667,57,,,"Nicese, F. P. and Colangelo, G. and Comolli, R. and Azzini, L. and Lucchetti, S. and Marziliano, P. A. and Sanesi, G.",,English,ELSEVIER GMBH,"HACKERBRUCKE 6, 80335 MUNICH, GERMANY","In a context of progressive urbanization, urban parks can play a pivotal role in carbon sequestration and stock. The study employs Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) to evaluate CO(2)e (carbon dioxide equivalent) emissions and removal by plants and soil in different urban green typologies, namely afforested areas, tree rows, social allotments, lawns, hedges, referring to a life span of 50 years. The present study aims to evaluate the carbon balance connected with planning, planting, and maintaining an urban park, the Parco Nord Milano (PNM), a green area located in the metropolitan area of Milan, Italy. The different emission data took into consideration planting and maintenance interventions, including the effects of equipment and vehicle choices, main operational activities, and the fate of vegetal residue from pruning, shrub and tree removal, and lawn mowing. The best performances in terms of CO(2)e balance per surface unit was obtained with tree rows and afforested area typologies (- 789 and - 527 Mg CO(2)e ha(-1) 50yrs respectively), while the hedges showed the worst CO(2)e balance, (+ 176 Mg CO(2)e ha(-1) 50yrs(-1)). Different planting options, different pruning or thinning intensities or species selection can change this balance. In addition, converting residues from removed trees into wood products can improve the storage of CO2 for long periods. LCA has proved to be an effective tool to support the planning and maintenance of urban parks and the types considered. However, rational planning must also have to take into account user preferences and needs, and which ecosystem services can be maximized to ensure a better quality of life.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,LCA;Soil;Carbon;Sink;Ecosystem services,,
rayyan-879385703,Structure and ecosystem services of small-leaved lime (Tilia cordata Mill.) and black locust (Robinia pseudoacacia L.) in urban environments,2015,,,URBAN FORESTRY \& URBAN GREENING,1618-8667,14,4,1110-1121,"Moser, A. and Roetzer, T. and Pauleit, S. and Pretzsch, H.",,English,ELSEVIER GMBH,"HACKERBRUCKE 6, 80335 MUNICH, GERMANY","Knowledge of the structure and morphology of common urban trees is scarce, particularly of the full life cycle of a tree. The present and future structural dimensions of urban tree species are of an increasing interest because tree growth is associated with its ecosystem services. The purpose of this study was to characterize the dimensions of two urban tree species (small-leaved lime, Tilia cordata Mill. and black locust, Robinia pseudoacacia L.) and to predict future structural dimensions based on the diameter at breast height and tree age. Regression equations were developed for tree height, crown diameter, crown height, crown volume, crown projection area, and open surface area of the tree pit. The data revealed strong relationships (r(2) > 0.7) between crown diameter, crown volume, crown projection area, crown height, tree pit for both species, and tree height of T. cordata. Based on tree dimensions and the leaf area index (LAI), three ecosystem services (carbon storage, shading, and cooling effects) were estimated for the analyzed trees. The results indicated that urban trees considerably improved the climate in cities, with carbon storage, shading, and cooling of single trees showing a direct relationship with LAI and age. The associations of tree growth patterns identified in this study can be used as guidelines for tree planting in cities and their ecosystem services; they may improve the management and planning of urban green areas. (C) 2015 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,Carbon storage;Shading;Site condition;Transpiration;Tree allometry;Urban trees,,
rayyan-879385708,"Present and future ecosystem services of trees in the Bronx, NY",2019,6,,URBAN FORESTRY \& URBAN GREENING,1618-8667,42,,10-20,"Nyelele, Charity and Kroll, Charles N. and Nowak, David J.",,English,ELSEVIER GMBH,"HACKERBRUCKE 6, 80335 MUNICH, GERMANY","Trees provide ecosystem services such as air pollutant removal, carbon storage and sequestration, urban heat island reduction, stormwater runoff reduction as well as other socio-economic benefits. Large-scale tree plantings are occurring in many cities to increase tree canopy coverage as well as the health, economic and environmental benefits that come with trees. Thus, there is a need to assess the extent to which trees provide these ecosystem services, where services are realized, and most importantly to improve methods of determining future planting locations. Using a new spatially distributed implementation of the i-Tree suite of ecosystem service models and mapping tools, we estimate the current and future ecosystem services and benefits of a recent tree planting initiative within each census block group of the Bronx, NY for 2010 and for three 2030 tree cover scenarios (assuming no tree mortality, 4\% and 8\% annual mortality). Land cover and tree canopy estimates for 2010 are derived from a high-resolution land cover dataset. A grow-out scenario based on urban tree database information and allometric equations is used to predict future canopy cover. Change analysis is carried out at the census block group level to determine the magnitude and direction of change for each service and benefit over time. The monetary value of trees in the Bronx in 2010 is estimated to be \$37.6 million, and this value is estimated to range from \$40.7 million to \$43.9 million in 2030 if the current canopy is maintained and newly planted trees grow to maturity.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,Allometric equations;Benefits;Ecosystem services;Grow-out;i-Tree;Urban forestry;Trees,,
rayyan-879385722,"The Role of Composition, Invasives, and Maintenance Emissions on Urban Forest Carbon Stocks",2015,2,,ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT,0364-152X,55,2,431-442,"Horn, Josh and Escobedo, Francisco J. and Hinkle, Ross and Hostetler, Mark and Timilsina, Nilesh",,English,SPRINGER,"233 SPRING ST, NEW YORK, NY 10013 USA","There are few field-based, empirical studies quantifying the effect of invasive trees and palms and maintenance-related carbon emissions on changes in urban forest carbon stocks. We estimated carbon (C) stock changes and tree maintenance-related C emissions in a subtropical urban forest by re-measuring a subsample of residential permanent plots during 2009 and 2011, using regional allometric biomass equations, and surveying residential homeowners near Orlando, FL, USA. The effect of native, non-native, invasive tree species and palms on C stocks and sequestration was also quantified. Findings show 17.8 tC/ha in stocks and 1.2 tC/ha/year of net sequestration. The most important species both by frequency of C stocks and sequestration were Quercus laurifolia Michx. and Quercus virginiana Mill., accounting for 20 \% of all the trees measured; 60 \% of carbon stocks and over 75 \% of net C sequestration. Palms contributed to less than 1 \% of the total C stocks. Natives comprised two-thirds of the tree population and sequestered 90 \% of all C, while invasive trees and palms accounted for 5 \% of net C sequestration. Overall, invasive and exotic trees had a limited contribution to total C stocks and sequestration. Annual tree-related maintenance C emissions were 0.1 \% of total gross C sequestration. Plot-level tree, palm, and litter cover were correlated to C stocks and net sequestration. Findings can be used to complement existing urban forest C offset accounting and monitoring protocols and to better understand the role of invasive woody plants on urban ecosystem service provision.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,Carbon accounting;Climate action planning;Ecosystem services;Ecosystem disservices;Carbon offsets;Carbon storage;Trees,,
rayyan-879385725,"Ecosystem services of allotment and community gardens: A Leipzig, Germany case study",2017,4,,URBAN FORESTRY \& URBAN GREENING,1618-8667,23,,44-53,"Cabral, Ines and Keim, Jessica and Engelmann, Rolf and Kraemer, Rol and Siebert, Julia and Bonn, Aletta",,English,"ELSEVIER GMBH, URBAN \& FISCHER VERLAG","OFFICE JENA, P O BOX 100537, 07705 JENA, GERMANY","Allotment gardens and community gardens provide important ecosystem services to urban communities, such as local climate and water regulation, as well as habitat provision for biodiversity. Using the city of Leipzig as a case study, we assess the effect of urban gardening type and intensity of management on ecosystem services and biodiversity by comparing allotment and community gardens. Employing a stratified sampling design, we assessed 30 allotment plots of different management intensity, including vacant plots, and six adjacent community gardens along a gradient of urbanity, using in-depth field surveys, remote sensing analyses and interviews. Our results show a bimodal relationship of overall vascular plant species richness with management intensity with highest species richness in medium intensively-managed plots, as they provide space for both cultivated edible and ornamental species as well as native, spontaneous species. In comparison to allotment gardens, community gardens provide a higher ratio of permeable soil surface and a slightly higher microbial soil activity, implying important differences in water regulation and nutrient cycling properties. With regard to climate regulation, old mature trees make a considerable contribution to above ground carbon storage, but are largely restricted to communal areas of the allotment estates due to code regulation. Based on our results, we discuss the impact of allotment gardening association codes and garden type and ways forward for gardeners and urban planners to promote biodiversity and ecosystem services provision. (C) 2017 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,Allotment gardens;Biodiversity;Community gardens;Ecosystem services;Germany;Ecosystem,,
rayyan-879385732,"Estimation of carbon stock in urban parks: Biophysical parameters, thresholds, reliability, and sampling load by plant type",2020,11,,URBAN FORESTRY \& URBAN GREENING,1618-8667,55,,,"Wang, Vincent and Gao, Jay",,English,ELSEVIER GMBH,"HACKERBRUCKE 6, 80335 MUNICH, GERMANY","At present scarce information is available on what biophysical parameters of plants are important to what kind of vegetation carbon stock, and what thresholds should be adopted in sampling different types of plants, and what species/plants store carbon most efficiently. The answer to these questions is significant as it dictates the reliability of the carbon stock estimate and estimation cost, and can guide the design of efficient urban green infrastructure. This study aims to assess the carbon storage capacities of plants, their biophysical parameters important to the carbon stock by plant type, and the influence of parameter thresholds on carbon estimate and sampling load. In total, 1,681 woody plants were surveyed in 20 plots in Auckland parks and reserves. Trees (51\%), shrubs (22\%), and ferns (27\%) co-existed spatially, and stored 115.30, 2.05, and 5.94 Mg C, respectively, at a ratio of 19.4:0.3:1. On average, a tree, shrub, and fern/palm stored 138.09 +/- 333.7, 5.59 +/- 6.0, and 13.36 +/- 15.5 kg C per plant. The top five carbon-contributing tree species were exotic pines (29.1\%), kauri (9.8\%), rimu (3.8\%), kahikatea (2.9\%), and matai (2.1\%). Matai should be the choice in revegetation projects to maximise carbon stock given its unparalleled carbon contribution index (17.2). Stem length was totally ineffective in indicating plant carbon, followed by canopy area. Diameter at breast height (DBH) was a better indicator of tree and shrub carbon. Total vegetation carbon would be underestimated by 3.7\% if a DBH threshold of >= 10 cm were adopted for trees, and >= 14 cm for shrubs and ferns, all causing the carbon stock of the respective plant type to be underestimated by about 1.60 Mg C. However, these thresholds would reduce the overall sampling load by 47.2\%. The established relationship between DBH and cumulative carbon allows calibration of the estimated carbon in accordance with the DBH threshold adopted in sampling different plants. Whether the amount of calibration still holds true in other types of urban plants requires further study.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,Cumulative carbon stock;canopy height;DBH;urban plant type;Auckland,,
rayyan-879385740,Drivers of soil and tree carbon dynamics in urban residential lawns: a modeling approach,2017,4,,ECOLOGICAL APPLICATIONS,1051-0761,27,3,991-1000,"Trammell, T. L. E. and Pouyat, R. V. and Carreiro, M. M. and Yesilonis, I.",,English,WILEY,"111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA","Soils constitute the largest sink of terrestrial carbon (C), and urban soils have the potential to provide significant soil C storage. Soils in urbanized landscapes experience a multitude of human alterations, such as compaction and management subsidies, that impact soil C dynamics. While field studies may provide data on urban soil C storage, modeling soil C dynamics under various human impact scenarios will provide a basis for identifying drivers of urban soil C dynamics and for predicting the potential for these highly altered soils to store C over time intervals not typically amenable to empirical validation. The goal of this study was to model soil C dynamics in residential lawns using CENTURY, a dynamic mechanistic model, to determine whether drivers of soil C dynamics in natural systems (e.g., soil texture) were equally useful for estimating soil C content of highly modified soils in urban residential areas. Without incorporating human impacts, we found no relationship between initial CENTURY model simulations and observed soil C (P>0.05). Factors that best explained soil C accumulation for the observed soil C (bulk density, r(2)=0.30; home age, r(2)=0.37; P<0.01) differed from those found important for the CENTURY model simulations (percent sand, r(2)=0.72, P<0.001). Therefore, we conducted a modeling exercise to test whether simulating potential construction disturbance and lawn management practices would improve modeled soil and tree C. We found that incorporating these factors did improve CENTURY's ability to model soil and tree C (P<0.001). The results from this analysis suggest that incorporating various human disturbances and management practices that occur in urban landscapes into CENTURY model runs will improve its ability to predict urban soil C dynamics, at least within a 100-yr time frame. Thus, enhancing our ability to provide recommendations for management and development practices that result in increasing urban soil C storage.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Emily""=>""Included"", ""Danielle""=>""Included""} | USER-NOTES: {""Emily""=>[""Urban. Measures tree, lawn, and soil carbon. Tree carbon is dependent on individual tree management.""]}",,carbon;CENTURY model;residential lawns;soil C storage;tree C storage;UFORE model;urbanization;urban soil C,,
rayyan-879385742,"From savanna to suburb: Effects of 160 years of landscape change on carbon storage in Silicon Valley, California",2020,3,,LANDSCAPE AND URBAN PLANNING,0169-2046,195,,,"Beller, Erin E. and Kelly, Maggi and Larsen, Laurel G.",,English,ELSEVIER,"RADARWEG 29, 1043 NX AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS","Landscape changes such as urbanization can dramatically affect the provision of ecosystem services such as carbon storage. However, while cities have been shown to store substantial amounts of carbon in soils and vegetation, we have little information from long-term studies about how contemporary carbon storage in urban areas compares to carbon storage in the natural ecosystems that characterized these landscapes prior to urbanization. We used historical archival sources and land-cover data to quantify and map historical tree carbon storage in the now-urban Santa Clara Valley, California, USA prior to substantial Euro-American modification (ca. 1850) and to analyze change in the amount and distribution of carbon storage over the past ca. 160 years. We estimate that total tree carbon storage in the study area was similar to 784,000 to 2.2 million Mg (13.6-38.1 Mg C/ha) when the region was characterized by oak savanna and woodland habitats, compared to similar to 895,000 Mg C (15.5 Mg C/ha) today. This represents a non-significant gain of 14\% to a significant loss of 60\% depending on scenario. We also demonstrate changes in the spatial distribution of carbon on the landscape, as losses in carbon storage in areas of former oak woodland were partially offset by gains in carbon storage in historical habitat types that historically had few or no trees. This challenges the hypothesis that aboveground carbon storage increases with urbanization in Mediterranean-climate ecosystems due to irrigation and tree planting. Our study demonstrates the utility of using pre-1900s historical sources to reconstruct changes in ecosystem services such as carbon storage over century time scales.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,California;Silicon;Silicones,,
rayyan-879385757,"Contribution of Ecosystem Services to Air Quality and Climate Change Mitigation Policies: The Case of Urban Forests in Barcelona, Spain",2014,5,,AMBIO,0044-7447,43,4,466-479,"Baro, Francesc and Chaparro, Lydia and Gomez-Baggethun, Erik and Langemeyer, Johannes and Nowak, David J. and Terradas, Jaume",,English,SPRINGER,"VAN GODEWIJCKSTRAAT 30, 3311 GZ DORDRECHT, NETHERLANDS","Mounting research highlights the contribution of ecosystem services provided by urban forests to quality of life in cities, yet these services are rarely explicitly considered in environmental policy targets. We quantify regulating services provided by urban forests and evaluate their contribution to comply with policy targets of air quality and climate change mitigation in the municipality of Barcelona, Spain. We apply the i-Tree Eco model to quantify in biophysical and monetary terms the ecosystem services ``air purification,{''} ``global climate regulation,{''} and the ecosystem disservice ``air pollution{''} associated with biogenic emissions. Our results show that the contribution of urban forests regulating services to abate pollution is substantial in absolute terms, yet modest when compared to overall city levels of air pollution and GHG emissions. We conclude that in order to be effective, green infrastructure-based efforts to offset urban pollution at the municipal level have to be coordinated with territorial policies at broader spatial scales.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,Air purification;Cities;Climate regulation;Urban ecosystem services;Urban forests;Policy targets;Spain,,
rayyan-879385758,Estimating carbon storage in urban forests of New York City,,,,URBAN ECOSYSTEMS,1083-8155,,,,"Pregitzer, Clara C. and Hanna, Chloe and Charlop-Powers, Sarah and Bradford, Mark A.",,English,SPRINGER,"VAN GODEWIJCKSTRAAT 30, 3311 GZ DORDRECHT, NETHERLANDS","Forests play an important role in mitigating many of the negative effects of climate change. One of the ways trees mitigate impacts of climate change is by absorbing carbon dioxide and storing carbon in their wood, leaves, roots, and soil. Field assessments are used to quantify the carbon storage across different forested landscapes. The number of trees, their size, and total area inform estimates of how much carbon they store. Urban forested natural areas often have greater tree density compared to trees planted in designed cityscapes suggesting that natural area forests could be an important carbon stock for cities. We report a carbon budget for urban forested natural area using field-collected data across an entire city and model carbon stock and annual stock change in multiple forest pools. We find that natural area forests in New York City store a mean of 263.04 (95\% CI 256.61, 270.40) Mg C ha(-1) and we estimate that 1.86 Tg C (95\% CI 1.60, 2.13 Tg C) is stored in the city's forested natural areas. We provide an upper estimate that these forests sequester carbon at a mean rate of 7.42 (95\% CI 7.13, 7.71) Mg C ha(-1) y(-1) totaling 0.044 Tg (95\% CI 0.028, 0.055) of carbon annually, with the majority being stored in trees and soil. Urban forested natural areas store carbon at similar and in some cases higher rates compared to rural forests. Native oak-dominated forests with large mature trees store the most carbon. When compared to previous estimates of urban-canopy carbon storage, we find that trees in natural area forests in New York City account for the majority of carbon stored despite being a minority of the tree canopy. Our results show that urban forested natural areas play an important role in localized, natural climate solutions and should be at the center of urban greening policies looking to mitigate the climate footprint of cities.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""} | USER-NOTES: {""Danielle""=>[""Maybe get this paper double checked.""]}",,Forest carbon stocks;Natural climate solutions;Urban forest;Urban tree canopy;Urban natural areas;Urban woodland;New York City;Trees,,
rayyan-879385767,Carbon sequestration and storage potential of urban green in residential yards: A case study from Helsinki,2021,1,,URBAN FORESTRY \& URBAN GREENING,1618-8667,57,,,"Ariluoma, Mari and Ottelin, Juudit and Hautamaki, Ranja and Tuhkanen, Eeva-Maria and Manttari, Miia",,English,ELSEVIER GMBH,"HACKERBRUCKE 6, 80335 MUNICH, GERMANY","Cities have been identified as key actors in climate change mitigation. Nature based carbon sinks have been suggested as a means of mitigating the greenhouse gas emissions of cities. Although there are several studies on the carbon storage and sequestration (CSS) of urban green, the role of residential sites is not fully understood. In addition, the carbon storage of soils is often excluded. Also the implications for planning require more attention. This study estimates the CSS potential of trees and biochar in urban residential yards and identifies effective means to enhance it. Moreover, the study discusses the results at the city scale. The research is based on a case study in Helsinki, Finland, and applies i-Tree planting tool to assess the current and potential life cycle CSS of the case area. The results reveal that trees and the mixing of biochar into growing medium can increase the CSS considerably. The CSS potential of the case area is 520 kg CO2 per resident during 50 years. The added biochar accounts for 65 \% of the capacity and the biomass of trees accounts for 35 \%. At the city scale, it would lead to 330 000 t CO2 being stored during 50 years. The findings suggest that green planning could contribute more strongly to climate change mitigation by encouraging the use of biochar and the planting of trees, in addition to ensuring favourable growing conditions.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,Biochar;Carbon sink;Green infrastructure;LCA;Urban trees;Urban yards,,
rayyan-879385775,Influence of landscape management practices on urban greenhouse gas budgets,2021,1,,CARBON BALANCE AND MANAGEMENT,1750-0680,16,1,,"Hundertmark, Wiley J. and Lee, Marissa and Smith, Ian A. and Bang, Ashley H. Y. and Chen, Vivien and Gately, Conor K. and Templer, Pamela H. and Hutyra, Lucy R.",,English,BMC,"CAMPUS, 4 CRINAN ST, LONDON N1 9XW, ENGLAND","Background: With a lack of United States federal policy to address climate change, cities, the private sector, and universities have shouldered much of the work to reduce carbon dioxide (CO2) and other greenhouse gas emissions. This study aims to determine how landcover characteristics influence the amount of carbon (C) sequestered and respired via biological processes, evaluating the role of land management on the overall C budget of an urban university. Boston University published a comprehensive Climate Action Plan in 2017 with the goal of achieving C neutrality by 2040. In this study, we digitized and discretized each of Boston University's three urban campuses into landcover types, with C sequestration and respiration rates measured and scaled to provide a University-wide estimate of biogenic C fluxes within the broader context of total University emissions. Results: Each of Boston University's three highly urban campuses were net sources of biogenic C to the atmosphere. While trees were estimated to sequester 0.6 +/- 0.2 kg C m(-2) canopy cover year(-1), mulch and lawn areas in 2018 emitted C at rates of 1.7 +/- 0.4 kg C m(-2) year(-1) and 1.4 +/- 0.4 kg C m(-2) year(-1), respectively. C uptake by tree canopy cover, which can spatially overlap lawn and mulched landcovers, was not large enough to offset biogenic emissions. The proportion of biogenic emissions to Scope 1 anthropogenic emissions on each campus varied from 0.5\% to 2\%, and depended primarily on the total anthropogenic emissions on each campus. Conclusions: Our study quantifies the role of urban landcover in local C budgets, offering insights on how landscaping management strategies-such as decreasing mulch application rates and expanding tree canopy extent-can assist universities in minimizing biogenic C emissions and even potentially creating a small biogenic C sink. Although biogenic C fluxes represent a small fraction of overall anthropogenic emissions on urban university campuses, these biogenic fluxes are under active management by the university and should be included in climate action plans.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,Climate action plan;Urban carbon cycling;Landscaping;Biogenic fluxes;Soil respiration;Nature-based solution,,
rayyan-879385776,The overlooked role of New York City urban yards in mitigating and adapting to climate change,2015,,,LOCAL ENVIRONMENT,1354-9839,20,12,1412-1427,"Mason, Evan and Montalto, Franco A.",,English,"ROUTLEDGE JOURNALS, TAYLOR \& FRANCIS LTD","2-4 PARK SQUARE, MILTON PARK, ABINGDON OX14 4RN, OXON, ENGLAND","There is a dearth of research focusing on the role that urban residential open space plays in climate change adaptation, despite evidence suggesting that environmental benefits accrue when even small pockets of open space are made permeable and vegetated. In densely built New York City, there are 21,448 ha (53,000 acres) of such land. One city block with adjoining contiguous open space was investigated to quantify its existing environmental value and also its potential to provide enhanced services through redesign. The study block's open space was found to be 35\% permeable and planted with 96 trees, storing 45,359 kg (100,000 lb) of carbon. Simulations conducted using the United States Environmental Protection Agency Stormwater Management Model contrasting normal, light, and heavy precipitation years suggested that increases in annual precipitation could be fully mitigated by reducing impervious surface cover by 25\%. The preservation of the existing vegetated residential urban open space and the conversion of paved surfaces to a pervious condition both appear to be effective strategies for enhancing the city's ability to adapt to and mitigate for climate change.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Emily""=>""Included"", ""Danielle""=>""Included""} | USER-NOTES: {""Danielle""=>[""Need to ask for help on decision for this paper. Main focus is run-off but makes strong points for carbon. ""]}",,sustainability;climate change adaptation;land cover change;green infrastructure;storm water management;New York City,,
rayyan-879385783,Carbon storage and sequestration by urban trees in the USA,2002,,,ENVIRONMENTAL POLLUTION,0269-7491,116,3,381-389,"Nowak, DJ and Crane, DE",,English,ELSEVIER SCI LTD,"THE BOULEVARD, LANGFORD LANE, KIDLINGTON, OXFORD OX5 1GB, OXON, ENGLAND","Based on field data from 10 USA cities and national urban tree cover data, it is estimated that urban trees in the coterminous USA currently store 700 million tonnes of carbon (\$14,300 million value) with a gross carbon sequestration rate of 22.8 million tC/yr (\$460 million/year). Carbon storage within cities ranges from 1.2 million tC in New York, NY, to 19,300 tC in Jersey City, NJ. Regions with the greatest proportion of urban land are the Northeast (8.5\%) and the southeast (7.1\%). Urban forests in the north central, northeast, south central and southeast regions of the USA store and sequester the most carbon, with average carbon storage per hectare greatest in southeast, north central, northeast and Pacific northwest regions, respectively. The national average urban forest carbon storage density is 25.1 tC/ha, compared with 53.5 tC/ha in forest stands. These data can be used to help assess the actual and potential role of urban forests in reducing atmospheric carbon dioxide, a dominant greenhouse gas. Published by Elsevier Science Ltd.","Conference on the Advances in Terrestrial Ecosystem Carbon Inventory, Measurements, and Monitoring, RALEIGH, NORTH CAROLINA, OCT 03-05, 2000 | RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""} | USER-NOTES: {""Danielle""=>[""Main drive is about updating carbon sequestering estimates for reference. Not forest management. ""]}",,global climate change;carbon dioxide;urban forestry;carbon storage;carbon sequestration;Trees,,
rayyan-879385785,Evaluation of greenhouse gas emissions and energy recovery from planting street trees,2020,6,,GREENHOUSE GASES-SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY,2152-3878,10,3,604-612,"Chen, Ying-Chu",,English,"WILEY PERIODICALS, INC","ONE MONTGOMERY ST, SUITE 1200, SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94104 USA","This study evaluated street trees' potential for energy recovery and greenhouse gas (GHG) mitigation/emissions throughout their lifespans. Trees can mitigate GHG emissions as a result of CO2 uptake during growth; but GHGs are emitted when the branches and/or leaves are used as compost or fuel for energy production at the end of its life. A 41-year period (1976-2017) of the street trees along the sidewalks of the Tianliao river in Keelong city in Taiwan was taken a case study. The results showed that planting street trees helps mitigate climate change by reducing total GHG emissions (15 661 t CO2-eq) and producing an amount of renewable energy (5.9x106 kWh), that is around 1\% of the renewable energy generated by 24 waste-to-energy plants in Taiwan. The GHG mitigation during the lifespans of street trees can efficiently compensate for the GHG emissions that occur during end-of-life treatment (including both incineration and composting). On average, around 40 t CO2-eq of GHG mitigation would be achieved by planting a street tree. The cost-effectiveness analysis showed that US\$223 992 were saved over the study period due to the reduction in carbon tax achieved by the mitigation of GHGs. The results of this study should increase awareness on the importance of planting trees and managing wood waste in environmental protection strategies for mitigating climate change. (c) 2020 Society of Chemical Industry and John Wiley \& Sons, Ltd.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,compost;cost;greenhouse gas;incineration;street tree;wood,,
rayyan-879385799,Current and future biomass carbon uptake in Boston's urban forest,2020,3,,SCIENCE OF THE TOTAL ENVIRONMENT,0048-9697,709,,,"Trlica, Andrew and Hutyra, Lucy R. and Morreale, Luca L. and Smith, Ian A. and Reinmann, Andrew B.",,English,ELSEVIER,"RADARWEG 29, 1043 NX AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS","Ecosystem services provided by urban forests are increasingly included in municipal-level responses to climate change. However, the ecosystem functions that generate these services, such as biomass carbon (C) uptake, can differ substantially from nearby rural forest. In particular, the scaled effect of canopy spatial configuration on tree growth in cities is uncertain, as is the scope for medium-term policy intervention. This study integrates high spatial resolution data on tree canopy and biomass in the city of Boston, Massachusetts, with local measurements of tree growth rates to estimate the magnitude and distribution of annual biomass C uptake. We further project C uptake, biomass, and canopy cover change to 2040 under alternative policy scenarios affecting the planting and preservation of urban trees. Our analysis shows that 85\% of tree canopy area was within 10 m of an edge, indicating essentially open growing conditions. Using growthmodels accounting for canopy edge effects and growth context, Boston's current biomass C uptake may be approximately double (median 10.9GgC yr(-1), 0.5 MgC ha(-1) yr(-1)) the estimates based on rural forest growth, much of it occurring in high-density residential areas. Total annual C uptake to long-term biomass storage was equivalent to <1\% of estimated annual fossil CO2 emissions for the city. In built-up areas, reducing mortality in larger trees resulted in the highest predicted increase in canopy cover (+25\%) and biomass C stocks (236 GgC) by 2040, while planting trees in available road margins resulted in the greatest predicted annual C uptake (7.1 GgC yr(-1)). This study highlights the importance of accounting for the altered ecosystem structure and function in urban areas in evaluating ecosystem services. Effective municipal climate responses should consider the substantial fraction of total services performed by trees in developed areas, which may produce strong but localized atmospheric C sinks. (C) 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""} | USER-NOTES: {""Danielle""=>[""Seems to focus just on land use change, not forest management.""]}",,Urban forest;Canopy fragmentation;Carbon uptake;Climate adaptation;Street trees;Ecosystem services;Boston;Trees,,
rayyan-879385800,"An improved method for assessing mismatches between supply and demand in urban regulating ecosystem services: A case study in Tabriz, Iran",2019,8,,PLOS ONE,1932-6203,14,8,,"Parsa, Vahid Amini and Salehi, Esmail and Yavari, Ahmad Reza and van Bodegom, Peter M.",,English,PUBLIC LIBRARY SCIENCE,"1160 BATTERY STREET, STE 100, SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94111 USA","Regulating ecosystem services provided by urban forests are of great importance for the quality of life among city dwellers. To reach a maximum contribution to well-being in cities, the urban regulating ecosystem services (URES) must match with the demands in terms of space and time. If we understand the matches or mismatches between the current urban dwellers' desired quality conditions (demand) and the supply of URES by urban forests (UF) in the cities, this will facilitate integrating the concepts of ecosystem services in urban planning and management, but such an assessment has suffered from major knowledge limitations. Since it is complex and problematic to identify the direct demands for URES and the spatiotemporal patterns therein, improving the demand indicators can help to determine the actual requirements. In this paper, a methodological approach based on indicators is presented and demonstrated for two important URES: air quality improvement and global climate change mitigation provided by urban trees and shrubs. Four air quality standards and greenhouse gas reduction targets were used and compared to supplies of the URES in Tabriz, Iran. Our results show that the mean contribution of the URES supply to air quality standards and greenhouse gas reduction targets is modest. Hence, in Tabriz, there is a strong mismatch between demand and supply. Mismatches at the city scale will have to be reduced by both a reduction in pollutant emissions and an increased provisioning of URES supply through urban greenery. The presented assessment approach and the results for Tabriz make it explicit how different the demands and supplies of the two studied URES are, and we expect similar mismatches in many other cities. Therefore, our approach, relatively simple but still realistic and easy-to-apply, can raise awareness about, and the utility of, the ecosystem services concepts for urban planning and policymaking.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,"",,
rayyan-879385801,Homeowner preferences for wooded front yards and backyards: Implications for carbon storage,2016,2,,LANDSCAPE AND URBAN PLANNING,0169-2046,146,,1-10,"Visscher, Rachel Stehouwer and Nassauer, Joan Iverson and Marshall, Lauren Lesch",,English,ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV,"PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS","This study contributes to understanding of social preferences, norms, and behaviors in residential landscapes that affect planning, design, and management of trees, which store carbon and contribute to mitigating climate change. We investigated southeast Michigan homeowner preferences for different styles of front yards and backyards that were more or less wooded, learning what landscape characteristics they preferred and how their preferences related to their own yard management behavior. We surveyed homeowners, who selected their most preferred front yard and backyard from a series of images and indicated what characteristics were important to their preferences. We developed a homeowner typology based on their stated preferences for more and less wooded front yards and backyards, distinguished each type by landscape characteristics that were most important to homeowners, and tested whether homeowners of each preference type managed their actual yards consistent with type. Our results show that homeowners are heterogeneous in their preferences, identifying different characteristics as important according to type, but that only mowing of their actual yard is consistent with type. We also found that both important characteristics and actual uses of homeowners' yards varied between front yards and backyards. Both homeowner types and front yard/backyard differences suggest opportunities for planning and maintaining larger urban woodlands on residential lots. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,Climate change;Pen-urban;Residential landscape;Suburban;Urban forest,,
rayyan-879385802,Quantifying the contributions of native and non-native trees to a city's biodiversity and ecosystem services,2020,12,,URBAN FORESTRY \& URBAN GREENING,1618-8667,56,,,"Schlaepfer, Martin A. and Guinaudeau, Benjamin P. and Martin, Pascal and Wyler, Nicolas",,English,ELSEVIER GMBH,"HACKERBRUCKE 6, 80335 MUNICH, GERMANY","Urban trees are appreciated for their intrinsic value and their contributions to human well-being. Here, we analysed a database of 115'686 non-forest trees (1'025 species) to quantify the present contributions of native and non-native trees to biodiversity (taxonomic richness) in the metropolitan area of Geneva, Switzerland. Non-native trees made up 90 \% of species and 40 \% of individuals. A subset of these individuals with more detailed phenotypic information (N = 50'718 trees; 527 species) was used to quantify five regulating ecosystem services (micro-particle capture, carbon sequestration, water interception, microclimatic cooling, and support for pollinators), three cultural ecosystem services (natural heritage, recreational, and aesthetic value) and two disservices (allergies and biological invasiveness). Non-native and native trees generated roughly identical regulating services, on a per-tree basis, as these are linked primarily to tree morphology rather than to tree-origin. Non-native trees generated cultural ecosystem services that were greater than native trees, on a per-tree basis, with the exception of the notion of ``natural heritage{''}. For example, 79 \% (163/207) of trees independently identified as ``remarkable{''} by the canton of Geneva were non-native. Our results illustrate that non-native trees represent a significant source of biodiversity and ecosystem services both in absolute terms and on a per-tree basis. Given the empirical importance of non-native trees in many cities, and the likelihood that their importance will increase with future climate change, we suggest that non-native trees be considered in conservation assessments and strategic planning both for intrinsic reasons and for their contributions to human well-being.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,Indicators;IPBES;Pollination;Singapore index;Urban;Trees,,
rayyan-879385804,Impacts of urban greenspace on offsetting carbon emissions for middle Korea,2002,2,,JOURNAL OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT,0301-4797,64,2,115-126,"Jo, HK",,English,ACADEMIC PRESS LTD- ELSEVIER SCIENCE LTD,"24-28 OVAL RD, LONDON NW1 7DX, ENGLAND","Carbon dioxide is an important greenhouse gas and a major agent of climate change. This study quantified carbon (C) emissions from energy consumption and C storage and uptake by greenspace for three cities in middle Korea: Chuncheon, Kangleung, and Seoul. Carbon emissions were estimated using C emission coefficients for fossil fuels consumed. Carbon storage and uptake by woody plants were computed applying biomass equations and radial growth rates. The soils in Chuncheon were cored to analyze organic C storage. Annual C emissions were 37.0 t/ha/yr in Kangleung, 47.2 t/ha/yr in Chuncheon, and 264.9 t/ha/yr in Seoul. Mean C storage by woody plants ranged from 26.0 to 60.1 t/ha for natural lands within the study cities, and from 4.7 to 7.2 t/ha for urban lands (all land use types except natural and agricultural lands). Mean annual C uptake by woody plants ranged from 1.60 to 3.91 t/ha/yr for natural lands within the cities, and from 0.53 to 0.80 t/ha/yr for urban lands. There were no significant differences (95\% confidence level) between the cities in C storage and uptake per ha for urban lands. Organic C storage in Chuncheon soils (to a depth of 60 cm) averaged 31.6 t/ha for natural lands and 24.8 t/ha for urban lands. Woody plants stored an amount of C equivalent to 6.0-59.1\% of total C emissions within the cities, and annually offset total C emissions by 0.5-2.2\%. Carbon storage in soils was 1.2 times greater than that by woody plants in Chuncheon. The C reduction benefits of woody plants were greater in Chuncheon and Kangleung, where areal distribution of natural lands was larger and the population density lower than in Seoul. Strategies to increase C storage and uptake by urban greenspace were explored. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,climate change;fossil fuels;woody plants;soils;benefits;strategies;Korea,,
rayyan-879385806,Impacts of policy on urban energy metabolism at tackling climate change: The case of Lisbon,2020,12,,JOURNAL OF CLEANER PRODUCTION,0959-6526,276,,,"Elliot, Thomas and Almenar, Javier Babi and Rugani, Benedetto",,English,ELSEVIER SCI LTD,"THE BOULEVARD, LANGFORD LANE, KIDLINGTON, OXFORD OX5 1GB, OXON, ENGLAND","Urbanisation and the associated growing climate change burdens pose risks to urban and global climate resilience. Urban greenhouse gas emissions fluctuate over time in response to energy demand, which is influenced by government programmes, economic activity, and demographics. In this research, we investigate the influence of policy on urban energy demand and its consequences on mitigating climate change impacts. Using a case study of Lisbon, Portugal from 2008 to 2016, we illustrate a combined use of an urban energy metabolism assessment coupled with a logarithmic mean Divisia index to isolate the changes in energy-related carbon emissions associated with policy changes. We then link these energy flows to life cycle emissions factors to build a multi-level assessment between local and non-local global warming potential. We find that in 2016 Lisbon's energy flows generated more than 2 Mt of CO2-equivalent emissions over their life cycles, 48\% of which were direct emissions within the city. This corresponds to a decrease of around 37\% in greenhouse gas emissions from 2008. Additionally, we estimate the potential of Lisbon's urban forests to sequester these emissions to understand the potential for climate change mitigation. Results show that Lisbon's urban forest can meet less than 1\% of the emissions throughout the assessment period. We discuss the changes, concluding that urban forests are insufficient in size to meet the sequestration demands of the urban energy metabolism, and therefore the focus must be more attuned to reducing fossil fuel use in the urban trade and transport activities. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,Logarithmic mean divisia index (LMDI);Sustainability;Urban metabolism;Energy policy;Life cycle assessment (LCA);Ecosystem services;Global climate regulation (GCR);Carbon sequestration;Energy Metabolism,,
rayyan-879385817,"Benefits of a forested urban park: What is the value of Allan Gardens to the city of Toronto, Canada?",2011,4,,LANDSCAPE AND URBAN PLANNING,0169-2046,100,3,177-188,"Millward, Andrew A. and Sabir, Senna",,English,ELSEVIER,"RADARWEG 29, 1043 NX AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS","Treed urban parks provide numerous social, environmental, and economic services of measurable value to a city. To better understand the importance of a forested urban park we employ the Street Tree Resource Assessment Tool for Urban Forest Managers (STRATUM) to investigate the value of services provided by trees in Allan Gardens, a historic public park in downtown Toronto, Canada. A full inventory, conducted in 2008, found 309 trees representing 43 species. Park trees provided 26,326 USD in annual benefits (\$16,665 environmental; \$9661 aesthetic) during 2008, and delivered a benefit-to-cost ratio of 3.4:1. Tree size and leaf area are larger in Allan Gardens when compared with trees growing in other Toronto parks and across the city as a whole. The flow of benefits from Allan Gardens' urban forest is heavily dependent upon Norway Maple (Acer platanoides), a finding mirrored across much of Toronto's urban forest. Norway Maple provides the greatest overall annual benefits (\$4846 total; \$113 per tree) and as a species contributes 17.5\% of the environmental and 20\% of aesthetic value provided by trees in the park. This work offers a model to urban planners, providing a straightforward methodology for quantifying the value of nature in public city spaces, in the form of treed parks. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,City park;Urban forest;Tree benefits;STRATUM;Leaf area;Norway maple;Canada;Trees,,
rayyan-879385823,The marginal cost of carbon abatement from planting street trees in New York City,2013,11,,ECOLOGICAL ECONOMICS,0921-8009,95,,1-10,"Kovacs, Kent F. and Haight, Robert G. and Jung, Suhyun and Locke, Dexter H. and O'Neil-Dunne, Jarlath",,English,ELSEVIER,"RADARWEG 29, 1043 NX AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS","Urban trees can store carbon through the growth process and reduce fossil fuel use by lowering cooling and heating energy consumption of buildings through the process of transpiration, shading, and the blocking of wind. However, the planting and maintenance of urban trees come at a cost. We estimate the discounted cost of net carbon reductions associated with planting and caring for street trees in New York City (NYC) over 50-and 100-year horizons. Depending on the species planted, the cost of reducing carbon, averaged across planting locations, ranges from \$3133 to \$8888 per tonne carbon (tC), which is higher than current cost estimates of forest-based carbon sequestration. The London plane tree is the most cost-effective species because of its long life span and large canopy, and the marginal cost of carbon reduction for the species ranges from \$1553 to \$7396/tC across planting locations. The boroughs of Staten Island and Queens have planting locations with the lowest average costs of carbon reduction (\$2657/tC and \$2755/tC, respectively), resulting from greater reductions in energy consumption in nearby buildings, which have fewer stories and more residential use than buildings in the other boroughs. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,Cost-effectiveness;Carbon;Street trees;New York City,,
rayyan-879385831,"Assessing Lisbon Trees' Carbon Storage Quantity, Density, and Value Using Open Data and Allometric Equations",2019,4,,INFORMATION,2078-2489,10,4,,"Neto, Miguel de Castro and Sarmento, Pedro",,English,MDPI,"ST ALBAN-ANLAGE 66, CH-4052 BASEL, SWITZERLAND","Urban population has grown exponentially in recent years, leading to an increase of CO2 emissions and consequently contributing on a large scale to climate change. Urban trees are fundamental to mitigating CO2 emissions as they incorporate carbon in their biomass. It becomes necessary to understand and measure urban tree carbon storage. In this paper is studied the potential of open data to measure the quantity, density, and value of carbon stored by the seven most represented urban trees in the city of Lisbon. To compute carbon storage, the seven most represented urban tree species were selected from an open database acquired from an open data portal of the city of Lisbon. Through allometric equations, it was possible to compute the trees' biomass and calculate carbon storage quantity, density, and value. The results showed that the tree species Celtis australis is the species that contributes more to carbon storage. Central parishes of the city of Lisbon present higher-density values of carbon storage when compared with the border parishes despite the first ones presenting low-to-medium values of carbon storage quantity and value. Trees located in streets, present higher values of carbon storage, when compared with trees located in schools and green areas. Finally, the potential usage of this information to build a decision-support dashboard for planning green infrastructures was demonstrated.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,carbon storage;urban trees;allometric equation;open data;Trees,,
rayyan-879385834,CARBON STORAGE AND FLUX IN URBAN RESIDENTIAL GREENSPACE,1995,10,,JOURNAL OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT,0301-4797,45,2,109-133,"JO, HK and MCPHERSON, EG",,English,ACADEMIC PRESS LTD- ELSEVIER SCIENCE LTD,"24-28 OVAL RD, LONDON NW1 7DX, ENGLAND","There is increasing concern about the predicted negative effects of the future doubling of carbon dioxide on the earth. This concern has evoked interest in the potential for urban greenspace to help reduce the levels of atmospheric carbon. This study quantifies greenspace-related carbon storage and annual carbon fluxes for urban residential landscapes. For detailed quantification, the scale of this study was limited to two residential blocks in northwest Chicago which had a significant difference in vegetation cover. Differences between the two blocks in the size of greenspace area and vegetation cover resulted in considerable differences in total carbon storage and annual carbon uptake. Total carbon storage in greenspace was about 26.15 kg/m(2) of greenspace in study block 1, and 23.20 k/m(2) of greenspace in block 2. Of the total, soil carbon accounted for approximately 78.7\% in block 1 and 88.7\% in block 2. Trees and shrubs in block 1 and block 2 accounted for 20.8\% and 10.6\%, respectively. The carbon storage in grass and other herbaceous plants was approximately 0.5-0.7\% in both blocks. Total net annual carbon input to the study blocks by all the greenspace components was in the region of 0.49 kg/m(2) of greenspace in block 1 and 0.32 kg/m(2) of greenspace in block 2. The principal net carbon release from greenspaces of the two residential landscapes was from grass maintenance. Greenspace planning and management strategies were explored to minimize carbon release and maximize carbon uptake. (C) 1995 Academic Press Limited","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,CLIMATE CHANGE;CARBON BUDGET;GREENSPACE PLANNING;RESIDENTIAL LANDSCAPE;NORTHWEST CHICAGO,,
rayyan-879385835,The role of ecosystem services in climate and air quality in urban areas: Evaluating carbon sequestration and air pollution removal by street and park trees in Szeged (Hungary),2015,,,MORAVIAN GEOGRAPHICAL REPORTS,1210-8812,23,3,36-46,"Kiss, Marton and Takacs, Agnes and Pogacsas, Reka and Gulyas, Agnes",,English,"ACAD SCI CZECH REPUBLIC, INST GEONICS","MGR, INST GEONICS ASCR, DEPT ENVIRONMENTAL GEOGRAPHY, DROBNEHO 28, BRNO, 602 00, CZECH REPUBLIC","The evaluation of ecosystem services can provide essential help in incorporatating the multifunctionality of urban ecosystems in planning and management processes. Two important regulating services of urban trees, carbon sequestration and air pollution removal, are evaluated in this article for different types of tree stands (streets, parks) in the city centre of Szeged (Hungary). The necessary calculations were carried out by an adaptation of the targeted model (i-Tree Eco), based on a large complete tree inventory dataset. The analyses revealed the main tendencies in differences between tree species considering the tree condition, which affects the service-providing capacity to a high degree. The effects of differences in tree management on the chosen ecosystem services were investigated by comparing two pairs of tree alleys. Based on our observations, clear cuts and complete tree alley changes are not advisable from an ecosystem service point of view.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,urban ecosystem services;carbon sequestration;air pollution removal;Szeged;Hungary,,
rayyan-879385850,"Plant communities of selected urbanized areas of Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada",2005,3,,LANDSCAPE AND URBAN PLANNING,0169-2046,71,2,191-206,"Turner, K and Lefler, L and Freedman, B",,English,ELSEVIER,"RADARWEG 29, 1043 NX AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS","This study was designed to compare plant biodiversity and community indicators among urban residential areas and more-natural habitats in the vicinity of Halifax, Nova Scotia. Six house lots were examined in each of three age-categories of residential neighborhoods (>80 years, 30-50 years, and <10 years), and these were compared to four forested plots in semi-natural urban parks and four in a natural forest. The residential areas represented broad stages of successional development of ``urban forest,{''} while the stands of semi-natural and natural forest are representative of the original habitats that have been converted into residential land-use. In general, the observed plant species richness was much higher in the residential areas, but these habitats were strongly dominated by non-indigenous species whereas the natural and semi-natural habitats supported native taxa. This obvious difference between residential areas and semi-natural/natural habitats was confirmed by cluster analysis and principal components analysis, both of which separated the sample sites into two groups of plant communities. Neighborhood age and proximity of the residential sites had little influence on these multivariate analyses, suggesting that site-specific management practices (such as horticultural choices of landowners) had a strong influence on plant-community structure. Woody vegetation (trees and shrubs) in the semi-natural and natural forest had a higher basal area and stored more biomass and carbon than in residential habitats. However, there was a successional progression in the urban forest, in that older habitats stored much more woody carbon than younger ones. Although well-vegetated residential neighborhoods provide important environmental services, their striking dominance by exotic species, as well as their lower carbon Storage in vegetation, contribute to an impoverishment of ecological integrity. This circumstance could be partially mitigated by changing horticultural management to encourage naturalization, particularly through the planting of indigenous species. (C) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""} | USER-NOTES: {""Danielle""=>[""Not great for results""]}",,"biodiversity;carbon storage;ecological integrity;horticultural practices;native and alien species;naturalization;urban ecosystems;Niemann-Pick Disease, Type C;Canada;Nova Scotia",,
rayyan-879385852,"Effects of forest type and urbanization on carbon storage of urban forests in Changchun, Northeast China",2015,4,,CHINESE GEOGRAPHICAL SCIENCE,1002-0063,25,2,147-158,"Dan, Zhang and Haifeng, Zheng and Zhibin, Ren and Chang, Zhai and Guoqiang, Shen and Zhixia, Mao and Peijiang, Wang and Xingyuan, He",,English,SPRINGER,"233 SPRING ST, NEW YORK, NY 10013 USA","Rapid urbanization has led to dramatic changes in urban forest structures and functions, and consequently affects carbon (C) storage in cities. In this study, field surveys were combined with high resolution images to investigate the variability of C storage of urban forests in Changchun, Northeast China. The main objectives of this study were to quantify the C storage of urban forests in Changchun City, Northeast China and understand the effects of forest type and urbanization on C storage of urban forests. The results showed that the mean C density and the total C storage of urban forests in Changchun were 4.41 kg/m(2) and 4.74 x 10(8) kg, respectively. There were significant differences in C density among urban forest types. Landscape and relaxation forest (LF) had the highest C density with 5.41 kg/m(2), while production and management forest (PF) had the lowest C density with 1.46 kg/m(2). These differences demonstrate that urban forest type is an important factor needed to be considered when the C storage is accurately estimated. Further findings revealed significant differences in different gradients of urbanization, and the mean C density decreased from the first ring (6.99 kg/m(2)) to the fourth ring (2.87 kg/m(2)). The total C storage increased from the first ring to the third ring. These results indicate that C storage by urban forests will be significantly changed during the process of urbanization. The results can provide insights for decision-makers and urban planners to better understand the effects of forest type and urbanization on C storage of urban forests in Changchun, and make better management plans for urban forests.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,urban forest;carbon storage;carbon density;urbanization gradients;climate change;China;Trees,,
rayyan-879385854,"Transportation carbon dioxide emission offsets by public urban trees: A case study in Bolzano, Italy",2015,,,URBAN FORESTRY \& URBAN GREENING,1618-8667,14,2,398-403,"Russo, Alessio and Escobedo, Francisco J. and Timilsina, Nilesh and Zerbe, Stefan",,English,ELSEVIER GMBH,"HACKERBRUCKE 6, 80335 MUNICH, GERMANY","Increased carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions in urban areas due to rapid population growth and consequent increased energy use and vehicular traffic is a worldwide problem contributing to an altered global climate. Studies from North America and Asia have reported that urban trees can be used to mitigate these emissions. However, little is known about the role of European urban streetscapes in mitigating similar emissions from the transportation sector. Therefore, the aim of this study was to develop a method to calculate carbon dioxide storage and sequestration at the streetscapes level using field data, an existing tree inventory and available region-specific allometric equations. Results were compared to annual vehicular CO2 emissions from a city in the Italian Alps to determine the CO2 offset potential of urban streetscapes. We found that the trees in Bolzano's streetscapes through sequestration annually offset 0.08\% of the amount of CO2 emitted by the transportation sector. Results, applications, and a potential indicator are discussed and compared against other studies. Findings from this study can be used as indicators and to better understand the potential role of urban streetscapes in reducing urban atmospheric CO2 emissions. (C) 2015 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,Climate change;CO2 accounting;CO2 sequestration;Streetscapes;Transportation emissions;Italy;Carbon Dioxide;Trees,,
rayyan-879385860,"Modeling air pollutant removal, carbon storage, and CO2 sequestration potential of urban forests in Scotlandville, Louisiana, USA",2016,12,,IFOREST-BIOGEOSCIENCES AND FORESTRY,1971-7458,9,,860-867,"Ning, Zhu Hua and Chambers, Robert and Abdollahi, Kamran",,English,SISEF-SOC ITALIANA SELVICOLTURA ECOL FORESTALE,"DEPT PROD VEGETALE, VIA ATENEO LUCANO 10, POTENZA, 85100, ITALY","Understanding an urban forest's structure, function, and value can promote management decisions that will improve environmental quality and human health. Using i-Tree Eco software and its sampling and data collection protocol, an assessment of the baseline condition, ecological function, and value of the urban forests in Scotlandville (Louisiana, USA) was conducted during 2014. A stratified (by land use type) random sample plot map of the town was generated. Data from 170 field plots located throughout Scotlandville were collected, including tree species, diameter at breast height, total tree height, height to live top, height to crown base, crown width, crown dieback, crown light exposure, percent impervious surface under the tree, and direction and distance to building. Data were then entered into i-Tree Eco v5.0 and analyzed. Modeling results indicated that there are a total of 31 species and an estimated 239,000 trees in Scotlandville with a tree canopy cover of 23.7 percent; the three most common species are Black willow (Salix nigra), Water oak (Quercus nigra), and American elm (Ulmus americana); the overall tree density is 77 trees per hectare and trees with diameters of more than 15 cm (6 inches) constitute 56.5\% of the population. The model estimated that annually, the urban forests in Scotlandville remove 96 tons of air pollutants; gross sequestration is about 3,880 tons of carbon and net carbon sequestration is about 3,650 tons. Each year, trees in Scotlandville are estimated to store 88,700 tons of carbon, produce 9,720 tons of oxygen, reduce runoff by 121,200 m(3), reduce energy-related costs by \$324,000 USD, and provide an additional \$52,595 in value by reducing the amount of carbon released by power plants (a reduction of 739 tons of carbon emissions). The structural value for Scotlandville community forest is estimated at \$185 million and the annual ecological functional value is estimated at 9 million USD. These results provide baseline information for management recommendations to maximize the ecological benefits provided by trees.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,Urban Forest;Pollution Removal;Carbon Sequestration;Carbon Storage;Runoff Reduction;Energy Saving;Climate Change;Louisiana;Trees,,
rayyan-879385865,Modelling short-rotation coppice and tree planting for urban carbon management - a citywide analysis,2015,10,,JOURNAL OF APPLIED ECOLOGY,0021-8901,52,5,1237-1245,"McHugh, Nicola and Edmondson, Jill L. and Gaston, Kevin J. and Leake, Jonathan R. and O'Sullivan, Odhran S.",,English,WILEY,"111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA","The capacity of urban areas to deliver provisioning ecosystem services is commonly overlooked and underutilized. Urban populations have globally increased fivefold since 1950, and they disproportionately consume ecosystem services and contribute to carbon emissions, highlighting the need to increase urban sustainability and reduce environmental impacts of urban dwellers. Here, we investigated the potential for increasing carbon sequestration, and biomass fuel production, by planting trees and short-rotation coppice (SRC), respectively, in a mid-sized UK city as a contribution to meeting national commitments to reduce CO2 emissions. Iterative GIS models were developed using high-resolution spatial data. The models were applied to patches of public and privately owned urban greenspace suitable for planting trees and SRC, across the 73km(2) area of the city of Leicester. We modelled tree planting with a species mix based on the existing tree populations, and SRC with willow and poplar to calculate biomass production in new trees, and carbon sequestration into harvested biomass over 25years. An area of 11km(2) comprising 15\% of the city met criteria for tree planting and had the potential over 25years to sequester 4200tonnes of carbon above-ground. Of this area, 58km(2) also met criteria for SRC planting and over the same period this could yield 71800tonnes of carbon in harvested biomass. The harvested biomass could supply energy to over 1566 domestic homes or 30 municipal buildings, resulting in avoided carbon emissions of 29236tonnes of carbon over 25years when compared to heating by natural gas. Together with the net carbon sequestration into trees, a total reduction of 33419 tonnes of carbon in the atmosphere could be achieved in 25years by combined SRC and tree planting across the city.Synthesis and applications. We demonstrate that urban greenspaces in a typical UK city are underutilized for provisioning ecosystem services by trees and especially SRC, which has high biomass production potential. For urban greenspace management, we recommend that planting SRC in urban areas can contribute to reducing food-fuel conflicts on agricultural land and produce renewable energy sources close to centres of population and demand. We demonstrate that urban greenspaces in a typical UK city are underutilized for provisioning ecosystem services by trees and especially SRC, which has high biomass production potential. For urban greenspace management, we recommend that planting SRC in urban areas can contribute to reducing food-fuel conflicts on agricultural land and produce renewable energy sources close to centres of population and demand.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,ecosystem services;GIS model;land-use;short-rotation coppice;urban biomass carbon;urban ecosystems;wood biofuel;Rotation,,
rayyan-879385870,Combining the Conservation of Biodiversity with the Provision of Ecosystem Services in Urban Green Infrastructure Planning: Critical Features Arising from a Case Study in the Metropolitan Area of Rome,2017,1,,SUSTAINABILITY,,9,1,,"Capotorti, Giulia and Del Vico, Eva and Anzellotti, Ilaria and Celesti-Grapow, Laura",,English,MDPI,"ST ALBAN-ANLAGE 66, CH-4052 BASEL, SWITZERLAND","A large number of green infrastructure (GI) projects have recently been proposed, planned and implemented in European cities following the adoption of the GI strategy by the EU Commission in 2013. Although this policy tool is closely related to biodiversity conservation targets, some doubts have arisen as regards the ability of current urban GI to provide beneficial effects not only for human societies but also for the ecological systems that host them. The aim of this work is to review the features that should be considered critical when searching for solutions that simultaneously support biodiversity and guarantee the provision of ecosystem services (ES) in urban areas. Starting from a case study in the metropolitan area of Rome, we highlight the role of urban trees and forests as proxies for overall biodiversity and as main ecosystem service providers. We look beyond the individual functional features of plant species and vegetation communities to promote the biogeographic representativity, ecological coherence and landscape connectivity of new or restored GI elements.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,biogeographic representativity;connectivity;ecological coherence;European Green Infrastructure Strategy;urban forests;urban trees,,
rayyan-879385871,"Live fast, die young: Accelerated growth, mortality, and turnover in street trees",2019,5,,PLOS ONE,1932-6203,14,5,,"Smith, Ian A. and Dearborn, Victoria K. and Hutyra, Lucy R.",,English,PUBLIC LIBRARY SCIENCE,"1160 BATTERY STREET, STE 100, SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94111 USA","Municipalities are embracing greening initiatives as a key strategy for improving urban sustainability and combatting the environmental impacts of expansive urbanization. Many greening initiatives include goals to increase urban canopy cover through tree planting, however, our understanding of street tree ecosystem dynamics is limited and our understanding of vegetation structure and function based on intact, rural forests does not apply well to urban ecosystems. In this study, we estimate size-specific growth, mortality, and planting rates in trees under municipal control, use a box model to forecast short-term changes in street tree aboveground carbon pools under several planting and management scenarios, and compare our findings to rural, forested systems. We find accelerated rates of carbon cycling in street trees with mean diameter growth rates nearly four times faster in Boston, MA, USA (0.78 +/- 0.02 cm yr(-1)) than in rural forest stands of MA (0.21 +/- 0.02 cm yr(-1)) and mean mortality rates more than double rural forested rates (3.06 +/- 0.25\% yr(-1) in street trees; 1.41 +/- 0.04\% yr(-1) in rural trees). Despite the enhanced growth of urban trees, high mortality losses result in a net loss of street tree carbon storage over time (-0.15 +/- 0.09 Mg C ha(-1) yr(-1)). Planting initiatives alone may not be sufficient to maintain or enhance canopy cover and biomass due to the unique demographics of urban ecosystems. Initiatives to aid in the establishment and preservation of tree health are central for increasing street tree canopy cover and maintaining/increasing carbon storage in vegetation. Strategic combinations of planting and maintenance will maximize the viability of greening initiatives as an effective climate mitigation tool.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,Trees,,
rayyan-879385873,Contribution of green urban areas to the achievement of SDGs. Case study in Valencia (Spain),2021,11,,ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS,1470-160X,131,,,"Lorenzo-Saez, Edgar and Lerma-Arce, Victoria and Coll-Aliaga, Eloina and Oliver-Villanueva, Jose-Vicente",,English,ELSEVIER,"RADARWEG 29, 1043 NX AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS","The Agenda for Sustainable Development 2030 of United Nations is made up of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that humanity will have to meet by 2030. In achieving the SDGs, green urban areas (GUA) play a fundamental role at the local level as they provide recreational and bioclimatic regulatory functions and act as a carbon sink, as well. Specifically, the GUAs contribute directly to three SDGs: SDG 11 Sustainable cities and communities, SDG 13 Climate Action and SDG 15 Life on land. This paper evaluates direct contribution of GUA to this SDGs with high spatial resolution in the case study of the city of Valencia (Spain). The evaluation carried out has made it possible to make a diagnosis of the quantity and accessibility of GUA at sub-neighbourhood level. The results for SDG 11 show that only 9.23\% of the population do not have desirable access to GUA and 2.73\% live in areas without easy walking distance access to GUA. On the other hand, the evaluation of SDG 15 shows that each inhabitant has at their disposal 10 m2 of GUA, below the average of cities of more than 250,000 inhabitants in Spain. The high spatial resolution of the evaluation has also made it possible to identify the city areas with the worst access to GUA and the least amount of GUA per inhabitant. In consequence, the results allow determining zones with high potential to improve. Additionally, the quantification of the CO2 fixed by the GUA carried out for the evaluation of SDG 13, shows that the fixed carbon is equivalent to 0.04\% of total gross GHG emissions of the city and is 36\% higher than the total GHG emissions of the annual fuel consumption of the total fleet in the city. Finally, the monitoring of the indicators applied allows evaluating the evolution of the GUA to improve the sustainable development of the city.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,SDGs;Green Urban Areas;Accessibility;Climate change;Carbon;Spain,,
rayyan-879385875,"The structure, function and value of urban forests in California communities",2017,12,,URBAN FORESTRY \& URBAN GREENING,1618-8667,28,,43-53,"McPherson, E. Gregory and Xiao, Qingfu and van Doorn, Natalie S. and de Goede, John and Bjorkman, Jacquelyn and Holl and er, Allan and Boynton, Ryan M. and Quinn, James F. and Thorne, James H.",,English,ELSEVIER GMBH,"HACKERBRUCKE 6, 80335 MUNICH, GERMANY","This study used tree data from field plots in urban areas to describe forest structure in urban areas throughout California. The plot data were used with numerical models to calculate several ecosystem services produced by trees. A series of transfer functions were calculated to scale-up results from the plots to the landscape using urban tree canopy (UTC) mapped at 1-m resolution for each combination of 6 land use classes and climate zones. California's UTC covered 15\% of the urban area and contained 173.2 million trees, five per city resident. UTC per capita was lowest among U.S. states (90.8 m(2)), indicating ample opportunity for tree planting. Oaks were the most abundant taxon (22\%) and overall plantings were youthful. The annual value of ecosystem services was estimated at \$8.3 billion and the urban forests asset value was \$181 billion. Assuming an average annual per tree management cost of \$19 and benefit of \$47.83, \$2.52 in benefit was returned for every dollar spent. The threat posed by Invasive Shot Hole Borer (Euwallacea sp.) illustrates that urban forests are a relatively fragile resource whose contributions to human health and well-being can be suddenly jeopardized. One scenario projected that should Southern California cities lose 50\% (11.6 million) of all susceptible trees, the value of ecoservices foregone over 10 years was \$616.6 million. The approximate cost of removing and replacing the trees was \$15.9 billion. Strategies to reduce the risk of catastrophic loss by increasing the resilience of California's urban forests are discussed.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,Ecosystem services;Multi-city inventory;Sequestration;Urban ecosystems;Urban forestry;Urban tree cover;California;Trees,,
rayyan-879385880,Forecasting Agroforestry Ecosystem Services Provision in Urban Regeneration Projects: Experiences and Perspectives from Milan,2021,3,,SUSTAINABILITY,,13,5,,"Zanzi, Ambrogio and Andreotti, Federico and Vaglia, Valentina and Alali, Sumer and Orl and o, Francesca and Bocchi, Stefano",,English,MDPI,"ST ALBAN-ANLAGE 66, CH-4052 BASEL, SWITZERLAND","The expansion of urban agglomerates is causing significant environmental changes, while the demand and need for sustainability keep on growing. In this context, urban and peri-urban agriculture can play a crucial role, mainly if associated with an agroecological approach. Indeed, the extensive use of living fences and tree rows can improve the environmental quality, assuring ecosystem services (ES), developing a sustainable urban food system and increasing local productions and the related socio-economic improvements. This study aims to assess the benefits of an agroecological requalification of a dismissed peri-urban area in the South Milan Agricultural Regional Park (Italy), by evaluating two possible scenarios, both involving planting trees and shrubs in that area. The software I-Tree Eco simulates the ecosystem services provision of planting new hedgerows, evaluating the benefits over 30 years. The study underlines the difference between the two scenarios and how the planted area becomes an essential supplier of regulating ecosystem services for the neighbourhoods, increasing carbon storage and air pollution removal. Results were then analysed with a treemap, to better investigate and understand the relationship between the different ecosystem services, showing a notable increase in carbon sequestration at the end of the simulation (at year 30). The study shows a replicable example of a methodology and techniques that can be used to assess the ES in urban and peri-urban environments.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,regulating ecosystem services;peri-urban agriculture;urban sustainable regeneration;Italy;Regeneration,,
rayyan-879385885,"Estimation of Ecosystem Services Provided by Street Trees in Kyoto, Japan",2021,3,,FORESTS,,12,3,,"Tan, Xiaoyang and Hirabayashi, Satoshi and Shibata, Shozo",,English,MDPI,"ST ALBAN-ANLAGE 66, CH-4052 BASEL, SWITZERLAND","Street trees are integral components of urban green infrastructure. The importance of benefits provided by street trees has motivated the development of various tools to quantify the value of ecosystem services. The i-Tree Eco is a widely applied method for quantifying urban forest structure, ecosystem services, and values. Since its first release in 2006, i-Tree Eco has been successfully utilized in over 100 countries around the world. This study described one of the first applications of the i-Tree Eco international project in Kyoto, Japan, by customizing the models and parameters to enhance the accuracy of analysis results. Kyoto's street trees are prominently dominated by Ginkgo (Ginkgo biloba L.), Trident Maple (Acer buergerianum Miq.), Japanese Zelkova (Zelkova serrata (Thunb.) Makino.), Tuliptree (Liriodendron tulipifera L.), Flowering dogwood (Cornus florida L.), London Planetree (Platanus x acerifolia), Plum/cherry (Prunus spp.), and Weeping willow (Salix babylonica), which account for 92\% of the 1230 sample trees and deliver ecosystem service benefits at US\$71,434.21 annually or US\$58.07/tree/year. The annual value of each function was estimated at US\$41.34/tree for carbon storage and sequestration, US\$3.26/tree for stormwater runoff reduction, US\$11.80/tree for adverse health mitigation effects, and US\$1.67/tree for energy savings. The street tree species of Kyoto city that produce the highest average annual benefits are among the largest trees currently in the population, including P. x yedoensis (US\$225.32/tree), Z. serrata (US\$123.21/tree), S. babylonica (US\$80.10/tree), and P. x acerifolia (US\$65.88/tree). Our results demonstrated a comprehensive understanding of street trees benefits for Kyoto city, providing baseline information for decision-makers and managers to make effective urban trees management decisions, developing policy, and setting priorities.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,ecosystem services;i-Tree Eco customization;street trees;tree benefit value;Japan;Trees,,
rayyan-879385887,Carbon reduction and planning strategies for urban parks in Seoul,2019,5,,URBAN FORESTRY \& URBAN GREENING,1618-8667,41,,48-54,"Jo, Hyun-Kil and Kim, Jin-Young and Park, Hye-Mi",,English,ELSEVIER GMBH,"HACKERBRUCKE 6, 80335 MUNICH, GERMANY","This study quantified carbon storage and uptake for urban parks in Seoul, the capital of the Republic of Korea. A total of 38 study parks were selected using a systematic random sampling method and all the trees in the parks were field-inventoried. Carbon storage and uptake by the park trees were estimated applying a quantitative model for urban open-grown trees of each species. Mean carbon storage per unit of park area, basal area, and crown cover by the trees was 38.5 +/- 3.0 t/ha, 27.3 +/- 0.8 kg/100 cm(2), and 7.4 +/- 0.4 kg/m(2), respectively. Annual carbon uptake per unit area and cover by the trees averaged 3.5 +/- 0.2 t/ha/yr, 2.5 +/- 0.1 kg/100 cm(2)/yr, and 0.7 +/- 0.0 kg/m(2)/yr, respectively. The major determinants of the levels of carbon storage and uptake were species, density, sizes, and layering structures of the planted trees. The trees across all urban parks in Seoul were estimated to store 222.3 kt of carbon and to annually sequester 20.2 kt of carbon. The trees in these parks played an important role in annually offsetting carbon emissions from gasoline consumption by approximately 2.3\% of the total population of the city. The economic value of the annual carbon uptake, which was \$7.1million/yr, equaled 15.1\% of the annual maintenance budget of the parks in the city. However, the role of study parks as a source of carbon uptake was limited due to the distribution of large grass and impervious areas, the single-layered structures, and the dominance of small trees. Planning strategies were explored to enhance carbon reduction effects of the parks. They included the expansion of tree planting spaces through the minimization of unnecessary grass and paving areas, the active tree planting in the potential planting spaces, the multi-layered planting grouped with larger trees, and the planting of tree species having satisfactory growth rates. This study puts an emphasis on finding out the present carbon offset levels of urban parks on which information is limited and suggesting a future direction of park planning based on a detailed actual survey.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,Indicator;Offset;Planting;Storage;Uptake,,
rayyan-879385888,"Carbon storage and sequestration by urban forests in Shenyang, China",2012,,,URBAN FORESTRY \& URBAN GREENING,1618-8667,11,2,121-128,"Liu, Changfu and Li, Xiaoma",,English,ELSEVIER GMBH,"HACKERBRUCKE 6, 80335 MUNICH, GERMANY","Urban forests can play an important role in mitigating the impacts of climate change by reducing atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO2). Quantification of carbon (C) storage and sequestration by urban forests is critical for the assessment of the actual and potential role of urban forests in reducing atmospheric CO2. This paper provides a case study of the quantification of C storage and sequestration by urban forests in Shenyang, a heavily industrialized city in northeastern China. The C storage and sequestration were estimated by biomass equations, using field survey data and urban forests data derived from high-resolution QuickBird images. The benefits of C storage and sequestration were estimated by monetary values, as well as the role of urban forests on offsetting C emissions from fossil fuel combustion. The results showed that the urban forests in areas within the third-ring road of Shenyang stored 337,000t C (RMB92.02 million, or \$ 13.88 million), with a C sequestration rate of 29,000 t/yr (RMB7.88 million, or \$ 1.19 million). The C stored by urban forests equaled to 3.02\% of the annual C emissions from fossil fuel combustion, and C sequestration could offset 0.26\% of the annual C emissions in Shenyang. In addition, our results indicated that the C storage and sequestration rate varied among urban forest types with different species composition and age structure. These results can be used to help assess the actual and potential role of urban forests in reducing atmospheric CO2 in Shenyang. In addition, they provide insights for decision-makers and the public to better understand the role of urban forests, and make better management plans for urban forests. Crown Copyright (C) 2011 Published by Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,Carbon density;Carbon emission;Carbon sequestration rate;Ecosystem service;Globe warming;Urban ecosystem;China;Trees,,
rayyan-879385907,"Mapping carbon storage in urban trees with multi-source remote sensing data: Relationships between biomass, land use, and demographics in Boston neighborhoods",2014,12,,SCIENCE OF THE TOTAL ENVIRONMENT,0048-9697,500,,72-83,"Raciti, Steve M. and Hutyra, Lucy R. and Newell, Jared D.",,English,ELSEVIER,"RADARWEG 29, 1043 NX AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS","High resolution maps of urban vegetation and biomass are powerful tools for policy-makers and community groups seeking to reduce rates of urban runoff, moderate urban heat island effects, and mitigate the effects of greenhouse gas emissions. We developed a very high resolution map of urban tree biomass, assessed the scale sensitivities in biomass estimation, compared our results with lower resolution estimates, and explored the demographic relationships in biomass distribution across the City of Boston. We integrated remote sensing data (including LiDAR-based tree height estimates) and field-based observations to map canopy cover and aboveground tree carbon storage at similar to 1 m spatial scale. Mean tree canopy cover was estimated to be 25.5 +/- 1.5\% and carbon storage was 355 Gg (28.8 Mg C ha(-1)) for the City of Boston. Tree biomass was highest in forest patches (110.7 Mg C ha(-1)), but residential (32.8 Mg C ha(-1)) and developed open (23.5 Mg C ha(-1)) land uses also contained relatively high carbon stocks. In contrast with previous studies, we did not find significant correlations between tree biomass and the demographic characteristics of Boston neighborhoods, including income, education, race, or population density. The proportion of households that rent was negatively correlated with urban tree biomass (R-2 = 0.26, p = 0.04) and correlated with Priority Planting Index values (R-2 = 0.55, p = 0.001), potentially reflecting differences in land management among rented and owner-occupied residential properties. We compared our very high resolution biomass map to lower resolution biomass products from other sources and found that those products consistently underestimated biomass within urban areas. This underestimation became more severe as spatial resolution decreased. This research demonstrates that 1) urban areas contain considerable tree carbon stocks; 2) canopy cover and biomass may not be related to the demographic characteristics of Boston neighborhoods; and 3) that recent advances in high resolution remote sensing have the potential to improve the characterization and management of urban vegetation. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,Urban tree canopy;Vegetation biomass;Carbon cycle;Demographics;High resolution remote sensing;LiDAR;Boston,,
rayyan-879385909,"Private residential urban forest structure and carbon storage in a moderate-sized urban area in the Midwest, United States",2013,,,URBAN FORESTRY \& URBAN GREENING,1618-8667,12,4,454-463,"Schmitt-Harsh, Mikaela and Mincey, Sarah K. and Patterson, Matt and Fischer, Burnell C. and Evans, Tom P.",,English,ELSEVIER GMBH,"HACKERBRUCKE 6, 80335 MUNICH, GERMANY","In conjunction with urbanization and its importance as a major driver of land-use change, increased efforts have been placed on understanding urban forests and the provisioning of ecosystem services. However, very little research has been conducted on private property and little is known about the structure and function of privately owned urban forests. This research examines the structure of and carbon storage services provided by private residential urban forests in a moderate-sized Midwestern city. The primary research questions are as follows: What is the structure of private urban forests, and how does it vary across parcels? How much carbon is stored in tree and soil pools of private urban forests, and how does carbon vary across parcels? Ecological inventories were conducted on 100 residential parcels within 14 Neighborhood and Homeowners Associations of varying size and development age. Tree species richness, diversity, density, and diameter distribution were determined on a per parcel basis and for the entire tree population sampled. Further, tree and soil carbon storage were determined for each parcel. Results of this research demonstrated large variability in per-parcel tree metrics. Twelve of the parcels sampled had two or fewer trees, while eleven had greater than 50 trees. Further, tree carbon storage ranged from no carbon to 11.22 kg C m(-2). Alternatively, soil carbon storage was less variable and averaged 4.7 kg C m(-2), approximately 1.9 times higher than the average carbon stored in trees (2.5 kg C m(-2)). Management efforts aimed at maintaining or enhancing carbon storage and other ecosystem services should focus on both soil protection and maximizing services in living biomass. Our results demonstrate that sustaining tree-produced ecosystem services requires maintenance of large old trees and species diversity, not only in terms of relative abundance, but also relative dominance, and in combination, species-specific size distributions. (C) 2013 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,Parcel development age;Size class distribution;Tree diversity;Urban forest management;United States;Midwestern United States;Trees,,
rayyan-879385910,Carbon and PM2.5 Reduction and Design Guidelines for Street Trees in Korea,2020,12,,SUSTAINABILITY,,12,24,,"Jo, Hyun-Kil and Kim, Jin-Young and Park, Hye-Mi",,English,MDPI,"ST ALBAN-ANLAGE 66, CH-4052 BASEL, SWITZERLAND","An increasing concentration of air pollutants, which negatively affect human health and living environment, present a serious environmental concern around the world. Street trees can help reduce carbon (C) and PM2.5 in cities that lack sufficient greenspace. This study quantified C uptake and PM2.5 deposition on street trees in the Republic of Korea and suggested sustainable design guidelines to enhance the effects of C and PM2.5 reduction. The mean C uptake and the PM2.5 deposition on street trees per unit area were 0.6 +/- 0.1 t/ha/y and 2.0 +/- 0.3 kg/ha/y, respectively. The major determining factors of the levels of C uptake and PM2.5 deposition on street trees were the species, density, size, and layering structure of the planted trees. Street trees in the Republic of Korea annually offset C and PM2.5 emissions from vehicles by 1.4\% and 180\%, respectively. Based on these results, design guidelines are suggested that can contribute to sharing the value and the importance of planting street trees for the reduction of C and PM2.5 levels in greenspaces.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,urban tree;planting tree structure;carbon uptake;particulate matter;deposition;design model;Korea;Trees,,
rayyan-879385913,"Urban trees in university campus: structure, function, and ecological values",2021,9,,ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE AND POLLUTION RESEARCH,0944-1344,28,33,45183-45198,"Wang, Xueyan and Wang, Yanlin and Qu, Xiaohan and Huang, Bing and Li, Zeming and Sun, Junjiao and Wei, Xiaoqing and Yang, Xiuying",,English,SPRINGER HEIDELBERG,"TIERGARTENSTRASSE 17, D-69121 HEIDELBERG, GERMANY","University campuses usually have more trees and can provide various ecosystem services. However, there are few reports on tree ecosystem services of Chinese university campuses, especially in northern China. This study investigated the trees in the campus of Shenyang Institute of Technology and analyzed its ecological benefits and monetary value through i-Tree Streets. The campus trees contained a total of 5193 trees of 66 species, of which Catalpa ovata G. Don, Acer mono Maxim., Rhus typhina Nutt, and Salix babylonica L. accounted for 59.7\% of the total number. The age structure of the trees in the campus was not ideal, with 71.5\% of young trees, 24.0\% of maturing trees, 4.5\% of mature trees, and only 0.04\% of old trees. The trees in the campus provided more energy saving benefits (\$60,850, \$11.7/tree), carbon reduction benefits (\$34,318, \$6.6/tree) and aesthetic benefits (\$30,150, \$5.8/tree). The benefits resulted from air pollutant removal (\$12,889, \$2.5/tree) and rainwater runoff interception (\$15,534, \$3.0/tree) were smaller. In addition, tree species with more maturing trees and mature trees (i.e., with larger diameter at breast height) and large leaf area in the campus contributed significantly to ecosystem services. Our results can provide suggestions and certain insights for Chinese campus greening managers in tree species selection and tree management.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,University campus;Tree;i-Tree Streets;Ecosystem service;Trees,,
rayyan-879385928,Urban Tree Species Identification and Carbon Stock Mapping for Urban Green Planning and Management,2020,11,,FORESTS,,11,11,,"Choudhury, Md Abdul Mueed and Marcheggiani, Ernesto and Despini, Francesca and Costanzini, Sofia and Rossi, Paolo and Galli, Andrea and Teggi, Sergio",,English,MDPI,"ST ALBAN-ANLAGE 66, CH-4052 BASEL, SWITZERLAND","Recently, the severe intensification of atmospheric carbon has highlighted the importance of urban tree contributions in atmospheric carbon mitigations in city areas considering sustainable urban green planning and management systems. Explicit and timely information on urban trees and their roles in the atmospheric Carbon Stock (CS) are essential for policymakers to take immediate actions to ameliorate the effects of deforestation and their worsening outcomes. In this study, a detailed methodology for urban tree CS calibration and mapping was developed for the small urban area of Sassuolo in Italy. For dominant tree species classification, a remote sensing approach was applied, utilizing a high-resolution WV3 image. Five dominant species were identified and classified by applying the Object-Based Image Analysis (OBIA) approach with an overall accuracy of 78\%. The CS calibration was done by utilizing an allometric model based on the field data of tree dendrometry-i.e., Height (H) and Diameter at Breast Height (DBH). For geometric measurements, a terrestrial photogrammetric approach known as Structure-from-Motion (SfM) was utilized. Out of 22 randomly selected sample plots of 100 square meters (10 m x 10 m) each, seven plots were utilized to validate the results of the CS calibration and mapping. In this study, CS mapping was done in an efficient and convenient way, highlighting higher CS and lower CS zones while recognizing the dominant tree species contributions. This study will help city planners initiate CS mapping and predict the possible CS for larger urban regions to ensure a sustainable urban green management system.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,urban trees;OBIA classification;SfM approach;allometric model;carbon stock mapping;city planners,,
rayyan-879385931,Impact of Urban Expansion and In Situ Greenery on Community-Wide Carbon Emissions: Method Development and Insights from 11 US Cities,2020,12,,ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE \& TECHNOLOGY,0013-936X,54,24,16086-16096,"Milnar, Michael and Ramaswami, Anu",,English,AMER CHEMICAL SOC,"1155 16TH ST, NW, WASHINGTON, DC 20036 USA","Biogenic CO2 emissions in cities are shaped by urban land cover change which can release carbon stocks, and, carbon sequestration by in situ vegetation. To date, these two processes have not been studied together and compared with transboundary fossil fuel-based CO2 emissions of urban energy use. We leverage remote sensing and machine learning to quantify biogenic CO2 emissions between 2006 and 2012, across 11 U.S cities, including central and suburban cities, in different climate zones. Results indicate that in situ carbon sequestration by greenery varied moderately across cities (-2.1 to -0.87 Mg CO2 ha(-1) yr(-1)), while emissions from the carbon stock change due to land conversion varied much more (-3.4 to 9.8 Mg CO2 ha(-1) yr(-1)), indicating that the latter dominates biogenic CO2 emissions. Net biogenic CO2 emissions were negative (carbon sink) in four cities, while large net positive emissions were present in rapidly growing suburbs. As a ratio of community-wide energy use for travel and buildings, biogenic CO2 emissions were a small proportion in the core cities Denver (0.17\%) and Minneapolis (0.33\%) and as high as 38.2\% in growing exurban communities. These results show that land cover change and greenery will be important policy levers in zero-carbon city planning.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,"",,
rayyan-879385934,"Total urban tree carbon storage and waste management emissions estimated using a combination of LiDAR, field measurements and an end-of-life wood approach",2020,5,,JOURNAL OF CLEANER PRODUCTION,0959-6526,256,,,"Speak, Andrew and Escobedo, Francisco J. and Russo, Alessio and Zerbe, Stefan",,English,ELSEVIER SCI LTD,"THE BOULEVARD, LANGFORD LANE, KIDLINGTON, OXFORD OX5 1GB, OXON, ENGLAND","Climate action plans, with goals for carbon neutrality of cities, often rely on estimates of urban forest biomass and related annual carbon sequestration balanced against citywide carbon emissions. For these estimates to be successful, there is a need both for accurate quantification of urban tree populations and structure, and consideration of the net carbon sequestered when the fate of wood waste is factored in. This study provides a novel approach to providing a full city tree inventory for the city of Meran in northern Italy, using a combination of Light Detection and Ranging (LiDAR) and field techniques. Allometric equations, and the i-Tree application quantified the carbon storage in Meran as 8923 and 9213 Mg respectively, with an average carbon storage of 13.5 t/ha (5.47 kg C/m(2)). The percentage of traffic emissions sequestered annually is 0.61\% falling to 0.17\% when all emissions are considered. Differences between end-of-life wood management techniques were revealed, with burning with energy recovery for electricity being the most efficient with a carbon emissions/input ratio of 0.5. Landfill was the least efficient with a ratio of 121.9. The fate of this end-of-life wood has significant implications for carbon budget calculations in cities worldwide. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,Urban tree inventory;LiDAR;Carbon sequestration;Missing value imputation;Urban tree growth;IPCC waste model;I-tree,,
rayyan-879385935,"Carbon accumulation by native trees and soils in an urban park, Auckland",2014,,,NEW ZEALAND JOURNAL OF ECOLOGY,0110-6465,38,2,213-220,"Schwendenmann, Luitgard and Mitchell, Neil D.",,English,NEW ZEALAND ECOL SOC,"PO BOX 25178, CHRISTCHURCH, NEW ZEALAND","Carbon storage by trees and soil in urban areas is of increasing interest as a potential greenhouse gas mitigation measure. Our objectives were to (1) quantify carbon accumulation in above- and below-ground tree biomass, organic layer and mineral soil (0-5 cm) of a 27-year-old planted forest in Auckland and (2) compare the sequestration potential of urban trees with natural shrublands and forests in New Zealand. A mixed-species allometric equation for urban-grown native trees was developed on the basis of the tree biomass of 21 trees belonging to four species (Corynocarpus laevigatus, Kunzea ericoides, Pittosporum eugenioides, P tenuifolium). Our allometric equation and a recently developed mixed-species equation for New Zealand native forest species produced similar results. A total of 45.9 Mg C ha(-1) was stored in above- and below-ground tree biomass in our Auckland park, equating to an average annual carbon sequestration rate of 1.7 Mg C ha(-1). This rate is within the range reported for New Zealand shrublands. Despite the adverse conditions posed by some urban environments (e.g. poor-quality soil, contamination), planted urban forests can sequester carbon at similar rates to natural vegetation in New Zealand.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,allometric equations;carbon sequestration;planted forest;root biomass;tissue and wood chemistry,,
rayyan-879385940,Assessing the Ecosystem Services of Various Types of Urban Green Spaces Based on i-Tree Eco,2020,2,,SUSTAINABILITY,,12,4,,"Song, Peihao and Kim, Gunwoo and Mayer, Audrey and He, Ruizhen and Tian, Guohang",,English,MDPI,"ST ALBAN-ANLAGE 66, CH-4052 BASEL, SWITZERLAND","Urban green spaces play a crucial role in maintaining urban ecosystem sustainability by providing numerous ecosystem services. How to quantify and evaluate the ecological benefits and services of urban green spaces remains a hot topic currently, while the evaluation is barely applied or implemented in urban design and planning. In this study, super-high-resolution aerial images were used to acquire the spatial distribution of urban green spaces; a modified pre-stratified random sampling method was applied to obtain the vegetation information of the four types of urban green spaces in Luohe, a common plain city in China; and i-Tree Eco model was further used to assess the vegetation structure and various ecosystem services including air quality improvement, rainfall interception, carbon storage, and sequestration provided by four types of urban green spaces. The modeling results reveal that there were about 1,006,251 trees in this area. In 2013, all the trees in these green spaces could store about 54,329 t of carbon, sequester about 4973 t of gross carbon, remove 92 t of air pollutants, and avoid 122,637 m(3) of runoff. The study illustrates an innovative method to reveal different types of urban green spaces with distinct ecosystem service productivity capacity to better understand their various roles in regulating the urban environment. The results could be used to assist urban planners and policymakers to optimize urban green space structure and composition to maximize ecosystem services provision.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,urban green space;ecosystem services;i-Tree Eco;vegetation structure;Luohe,,
rayyan-879385959,"Carbon dioxide balance assessment of the city of Florence (Italy), and implications for urban planning",2013,12,,LANDSCAPE AND URBAN PLANNING,0169-2046,120,,138-146,"Vaccari, Francesco Primo and Gioli, Beniamino and Toscano, Piero and Perrone, Camilla",,English,ELSEVIER,"RADARWEG 29, 1043 NX AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS","The carbon dioxide balance for the Municipality of Florence (102.3 km(2)), with 29.1 km(2) of green space within the built-up city and 46.6 km(2) in the semi-rural pen-urban area, shows that collectively the green spaces offset 6.2\% of the direct carbon emissions. However the green spaces in the densely built-up city only offset 1.1\% of the emissions. 13.5 ktCO(2) y(-1) are taken up by vegetation in the built-up areas and 58.7 ktCO(2) y(-1) by vegetation in the pen-urban area. Urban green spaces are most efficient in offsetting anthropogenic CO2 emissions during the period March to June when plant growth rates are high and emission rates are relatively low. Landscape fragmentation is highly positively correlated with total CO2 emissions and negatively correlated with CO2 uptake. The detailed information produced during this investigation shows that policies aimed at reducing CO2 emissions in winter months will have a greater overall effect on total CO2 release to the atmosphere than those aimed at increasing CO2 uptake. Nevertheless, urban designers should consider all the benefits of urban green spaces and seek to ensure that new suburban development conserves green spaces and aims at sustainable urban design. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,Carbon dioxide fluxes;Eddy covariance;Urban design;Urban transect;Carbon Dioxide;Italy,,
rayyan-879385972,Evaluation of the Equity and Regional Management of Some Urban Green Space Ecosystem Services: A Case Study of Main Urban Area of Xi'an City,2021,7,,FORESTS,,12,7,,"Dang, Hui and Li, Jing and Zhang, Yumeng and Zhou, Zixiang",,English,MDPI,"ST ALBAN-ANLAGE 66, CH-4052 BASEL, SWITZERLAND","Urban green spaces can provide many types of ecosystem services for residents. An imbalance in the pattern of green spaces leads to an inequality of the benefits of such spaces. Given the current situation of environmental problems and the basic geographical conditions of Xi'an City, this study evaluated and mapped four kinds of ecosystem services from the perspective of equity: biodiversity, carbon sequestration, air purification, and climate regulation. Regionalization with dynamically constrained agglomerative clustering and partitioning (REDCAP) was used to obtain the partition groups of ecosystem services. The results indicate that first, the complexity of the urban green space community is low, and the level of biodiversity needs to be improved. The dry deposition flux of particulate matter (PM2.5) decreases from north to south, and green spaces enhance the adsorption of PM2.5. Carbon sequestration in the south and east is higher than that in the north and west, respectively. The average surface temperature in green spaces is lower than that in other urban areas. Second, urban green space resources in the study area are unevenly distributed. Therefore, ecosystem services in different areas are inequitable. Finally, based on the regionalization of integrated ecosystem services, an ecosystem services cluster was developed. This included 913 grid spaces, 12 partitions, and 5 clusters, which can provide a reference for distinct levels of ecosystem services management. This can assist urban managers who can use these indicators of ecosystem service levels for planning and guiding the overall development pattern of green spaces. The benefits would be a maximization of the ecological functions of green spaces, an improvement of the sustainable development of the city, and an improvement of people's well-being.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,urban green space;ecosystem services;equity;spatial pattern;regionalization,,
rayyan-879385995,"Prioritizing the provision of urban ecosystem services in deprived areas, a question of environmental justice",2021,5,,AMBIO,0044-7447,50,5,1035-1046,"Selmi, Wissal and Selmi, Slaheddine and Teller, Jacques and Weber, Christiane and Riviere, Emmanuel and Nowak, David J.",,English,SPRINGER,"VAN GODEWIJCKSTRAAT 30, 3311 GZ DORDRECHT, NETHERLANDS","The distribution of urban ecosystem services (UES) is often uneven across socioeconomic groups, leading to environmental justice issues. Understanding the distribution of UES across a landscape can help managers ensure an equitable distribution of services. While many past studies have focused on the distribution of green spaces in relation to socioeconomic variables, this research analyzes the distribution of UES provided by these green spaces. This research quantified air pollution removal, atmospheric carbon reduction, and surface runoff mitigation provided by urban trees in Strasbourg city (France). The provision of these three UES was studied at the census block scale by creating an index of UES delivery, which was contrasted with a constructed social deprivation index. Our results show that there is no significant association between the delivery of UES and social deprivation. Some deprived populations benefit from high UES delivery. Results also suggest that mapping associations between UES delivery and social deprivation should be integrated with future development plans to enhance the equitable distribution of UES. This study provides insights into the French context where studies about the distribution of UES at a small-area level remain lacking.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Emily""=>""Included""} | USER-NOTES: {""Emily""=>[""Urban. Temperate. One ecosystem service measured is atmospheric carbon reduction.""]}",,Deprivation;Environmental justice;Urban ecosystem services;Urban trees,,
rayyan-879385998,Urban Forest Ecosystem Services Vary with Land Use and Species: A Case Study of Kyoto City,2022,1,,FORESTS,,13,1,,"Kang, Jiefeng and Hirabayashi, Satoshi and Shibata, Shozo",,English,MDPI,"ST ALBAN-ANLAGE 66, CH-4052 BASEL, SWITZERLAND","The demand for urban ecosystem services increases with the rapid growth of the urban population. The urban forest is a crucial ecosystem services provider in cities. To achieve a better estimation of urban ecosystem services, an understanding of the link between heterogeneity and ecosystem services within cities is needed. Other than street trees and forest remnants, the contribution of dispersed green spaces should also be considered. In this study, a ground-based sample quadrat investigation of trees across a sequence of land types in Kyoto City was applied. The ecosystem services and monetary values of trees were further calculated using a customized i-Tree Eco tool. The ecosystem services calculated include carbon storage and sequestration, air pollutants removal, and runoff reduction. Ecosystem services of different land use classes were compared at both quadrat and single-tree levels. We found no significant difference across land use for all the ecosystem services at the quadrat level. However, ecosystem services were different across land use at the single-tree level. We performed a species-specific analysis and found that the pattern of ecosystem services at the single-tree level across land use varies with both the service tested and species. Our study suggests that the heterogeneity within a city should be considered when estimating urban ecosystem services. The results also provide insight into the urban green space management of Kyoto City.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,ecosystem services;land use;i-Tree;green infrastructure;urban,,
rayyan-879386019,Valuing Ecosystem Services and Disservices across Heterogeneous Green Spaces,2016,9,,SUSTAINABILITY,,8,9,,"Klimas, Christie and Williams, Allison and Hoff, Megan and Lawrence, Beth and Thompson, Jennifer and Montgomery, James",,English,MDPI,"ST ALBAN-ANLAGE 66, CH-4052 BASEL, SWITZERLAND","This study investigates small-scale variability in ecosystem services and disservices that is important for sustainable planning in urban areas (including suburbs surrounding the urban core). We quantified and valued natural capital (tree and soil carbon stocks) ecosystem services (annual tree carbon sequestration and pollutant uptake, and stormwater runoff reduction) and disservices (greenhouse gas emissions and soil soluble reactive phosphorus) within a 30-hectare heterogeneous green space that included approximately 13\% wetland, 13\% prairie, 16\% forest, and 55\% subdivision. We found similar soil organic carbon across green space types, but spatial heterogeneity in other ecosystem services and disservices. The value of forest tree carbon stock was estimated at approximately \$10,000 per hectare. Tree carbon sequestration, and pollutant uptake added benefits of \$1000+ per hectare per year. Annual per hectare benefits from tree carbon stock and ecosystem services in the subdivision were each 63\% of forest values. Total annual greenhouse gas emissions had significant spatial and temporal variation. Soil soluble reactive phosphorus was significantly higher in the wetland than in forest and prairie. Our results have implications for urban planning. Adding or improving ecosystem service provision on small (private or public) urban or suburban lots may benefit from careful consideration of small-scale variability.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,urban ecosystem valuation;green space;soil organic carbon;soil soluble reactive phosphorus;greenhouse gas emissions,,
rayyan-879386040,Above-ground carbon dynamics in different arid urban green spaces,2018,6,,ENVIRONMENTAL EARTH SCIENCES,1866-6280,77,12,,"Amoatey, Patrick and Sulaiman, Hameed and Kwarteng, Andy and Al-Reasi, Hassan Ali",,English,SPRINGER,"ONE NEW YORK PLAZA, SUITE 4600, NEW YORK, NY, UNITED STATES","Urban areas are proven sources of anthropogenic carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions, but urban greenery offers an opportunity to mitigate climate change impacts. Satellite remote sensing is valuable tool in assessing current and historical carbon stock dynamics. In this study, we estimated above-ground carbon (AGC) stock within four land use types including parks and gardens, avenue plantations, open greenery and institutional greenery in selected locations in Muscat Governorate through field measurement and satellite applications. Five different estimated spectral vegetative indices (VIs) acquired from Landsat 8 OLI were employed to develop linear and non-linear regression models between the spectral vegetative indices and the AGC stocks. The model with the highest coefficient of determination was used to estimate the AGC of the entire selected locations in Muscat Governorate for the year 2014 and 2017. The study results showed that both normalized differential vegetation index (NDVI) and ratio vegetative index correlate strongly with AGC in Parks and gardens with NDVI showing moderate correlation with AGC in Avenue plantations. The AGC in CO2 equivalence in Muscat Governorate, Oman, for 2014 and 2017 were estimated to be 5987 and 9591 tons, respectively, with an annual sequestration rate of 1201 tons. The social value of the current CO2 equivalent storage for 2017 was US \$ 537,127.00 (OMR 206,802.85). Background turf grass and impervious surfaces might have affected the AGC-VIs correlations within the land use types. Urban greening projects involving plantation of high biomass trees may enhance urban carbon sequestrations.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,Carbon sequestration;Vegetative indices;Biomass models;Social value,,
rayyan-879386074,Carbon sequestration of four urban parks in Rome,2016,9,,URBAN FORESTRY \& URBAN GREENING,1618-8667,19,,184-193,"Gratani, Loretta and Varone, Laura and Bonito, Andrea",,English,"ELSEVIER GMBH, URBAN \& FISCHER VERLAG","OFFICE JENA, P O BOX 100537, 07705 JENA, GERMANY","Urban parks form the largest proportion of public green spaces contributing to both physical and mental well-being of people living in urban areas. CO2 sequestration capability of the vegetation developing in parks of four historical residences (Villa Pamphjli, Villa Ada Savoia, Villa Borghese and Villa Tor-lonia) in Rome and its economic value were analyzed. Villa Pamphjli and Villa Ada Savoia having a larger vegetation extension (165.04 ha and 134.33 ha, respectively), also had a larger total yearly CO2 sequestration per hectare (CS) (780 MgCO2 ha(-1) year(-1) and 998 MgCO2 ha(-1) year(-1), respectively) than Villa Borghese (664 MgCO2 ha(-1) year(-1)) and Villa Torlonia (755 MgCO2 ha(-1) year(-1)), which had a lower vegetation extension (56.72 ha and 9.70 ha, respectively). CS was significantly correlated with leaf area index (LAI). The calculated CS for the four parks (3197 MgCO2 ha(-1) year(-1)), corresponding to 3.6\% of the total greenhouse gas emissions of Rome for 2010, resulted in an annual economic value of \$23537 /ha. (C) 2016 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,CO2 sequestration economic value;CO2 sequestration;Plant categories;Urban parks,,
rayyan-879386077,Urban Park Systems to Support Sustainability: The Role of Urban Park Systems in Hot Arid Urban Climates,2018,7,,FORESTS,,9,7,,"Kim, Gunwoo and Coseo, Paul",,English,MDPI,"ST ALBAN-ANLAGE 66, CH-4052 BASEL, SWITZERLAND","Quantifying ecosystem services in urban areas is complex. However, existing ecosystem service typologies and ecosystem modeling can provide a means towards understanding some key biophysical links between urban forests and ecosystem services. This project addresses broader concepts of sustainability by assessing the urban park system in Phoenix, Arizona's hot urban climate. This project aims to quantify and demonstrate the multiple ecosystem services provided by Phoenix's green infrastructure (i.e., urban park system), including its air pollution removal values, carbon sequestration and storage, avoided runoff, structural value, and the energy savings it provides for city residents. Modeling of ecosystem services of the urban park system revealed around 517,000 trees within the system, representing a 7.20\% tree cover. These trees remove about 3630 tons (t) of carbon (at an associated value of \$285,000) and about 272 t of air pollutants (at an associated value of \$1.16 million) every year. Trees within Phoenix's urban park system are estimated to reduce annual residential energy costs by \$106,000 and their structural value is estimated at \$692 million. The findings of this research will increase our knowledge of the value of green infrastructure services provided by different types of urban vegetation and assist in the future design, planning and management of green infrastructure in cities. Thus, this study has implications for both policy and practice, contributing to a better understanding of the multiple benefits of green infrastructure and improving the design of green spaces in hot arid urban climates around the globe.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,ecosystem services;ecosystem modeling;sustainability;human health;environmental quality;hot arid urban climate,,
rayyan-879386082,Air quality enhancement zones in Taiwan: A carbon reduction benefit assessment,2012,10,,FOREST POLICY AND ECONOMICS,1389-9341,23,,40-45,"Wang, Yi-Chung and Lin, Jiunn-Cheng",,English,ELSEVIER,"RADARWEG 29, 1043 NX AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS","Air pollution control is an important aspect of environmental protection in Taiwan. In 1995, Taiwan's government began, via afforestation, to establish air quality enhancement zones (AQEZs) in order to promote multiple environmental benefits, including improved air quality, increased carbon sequestration, and enhanced environmental quality of life. In 2010, there were over 504 such zones. In addition to providing urban forests and green spaces, tree growth in AQEZs can sequester atmospheric carbon dioxide and, by shading and evapotranspiration, reduce energy demand and increase soil storage of organic carbon. In addition, afforestation can offset the carbon footprint of the world's population and is one of the best approaches to implementing carbon neutrality. The purpose of this study was to analyze the carbon reduction benefits of afforested AQEZs. Investigations of 48 AQEZs showed (1) a high diversity of trees planted (168 species), (2) an average density of trees of 1142/ha, (3) a forest timber volume of 23.92 m(3)/ha, lower than in standard plantations, (4) a carbon storage capacity of 9.25 tons/ha, and (5) average annual carbon sequestration of 134 ton-C/ha/yr. Carbon sequestration by AQEZs in Taiwan, although not remarkably high, is nevertheless, along with other ecosystem services provided by AQEZs, a significant and direct benefit to the urban public. This study provides a reliable basis of measureable results with which decision makers can evaluate benefits of urban forest carbon sequestration. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.","USER-NOTES: {""shannon.clarke""=>[""NOTE: some parts of taiwan are not temperate, and others are. will need to be careful to determine where data comes from""]} | RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,Air quality enhancement zone;Carbon sequestration;Carbon neutrality;Urban forest;Green space;Taiwan,,
rayyan-879386086,The carbon footprint of urban green space-A life cycle approach,2012,2,,LANDSCAPE AND URBAN PLANNING,0169-2046,104,2,220-229,"Strohbach, Michael W. and Arnold, Eric and Haase, Dagmar",,English,ELSEVIER,"RADARWEG 29, 1043 NX AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS","Cities play an important role in the global carbon cycle. They produce a large proportion of CO2 emissions, but they also sequester and store carbon in urban forests and green space. However, sequestration by urban green space is difficult to quantify and also involves emissions. The carbon footprint analysis is an established method for systematically quantifying carbon sinks and sources throughout the lifetime of goods and services. We applied this method to an urban green space project in Leipzig, Germany. To the best of our knowledge it is the first application in this field. We simulated carbon sequestration by growing trees and contrasted it with all related carbon sources, from construction and maintenance over the lifetime of 50 years. In addition, we explored alternative design and maintenance scenarios. Total net sequestration was predicted to be between 137 and 162 MgCO2 ha(-1). Park-like design and maintenance is less effective than forest-like design and maintenance. Much uncertainty is linked to tree growth and tree mortality. Increasing annual tree mortality from 0.5 to 4\% reduces sequestration by over 70\%. In conclusion, urban green space can act as a carbon sink and the design and maintenance have a strong influence on the carbon footprint. The carbon footprint analysis is a valuable tool for estimating the long-term environmental performance of urban green space projects. Compared to emissions from people, the overall potential for carbon mitigation is limited, even in cities such as Leipzig with widely available space for new urban green space. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,Carbon sequestration;Urban forestry;Life cycle assessment;Urban decline;Urban reconstruction,,
rayyan-879386120,Retrofitting the Suburban Garden: morphologies and some elements of sustainability potential of two Australian residential suburbs compared,2009,,,AUSTRALIAN GEOGRAPHER,0004-9182,40,3,319-346,"Ghosh, Sumita and Head, Lesley",,English,"ROUTLEDGE JOURNALS, TAYLOR \& FRANCIS LTD","2-4 PARK SQUARE, MILTON PARK, ABINGDON OX14 4RN, OXON, ENGLAND","Residential gardens will continue to dominate as important elements of Australian suburbs in the timeframe available for adapting to climate change. In this paper, we analyse and compare the morphologies and sustainability potential of residential suburbs and their gardens in two case studies: Traditional-suburban and Modern-suburban in the Illawarra region of New South Wales. Spatial distributions of land-cover patterns were estimated using Geographic Information Systems (ArcGIS). The four sustainability parameters measured were: roof rain water collection; local food (vegetable) production; energy and CO2 emission savings from clothes lines; and carbon benefits of onsite tree canopy cover. Outcomes suggest that land cover such as tree canopy cover and other permeable and impermeable surfaces in garden spaces can significantly impact on sustainability. Impermeable surface cover is higher in the Modern-suburban compared to the Traditional-suburban development. Traditional-suburban is more capable of supporting environmental and ecological functions through better connectivity of green spaces and availability of onsite land areas for local food production. Modern-suburban has more capacity for roof rainwater collection due to larger building roof sizes, provided there is planning for sufficient tank spaces in the design phases. These results identify specific characteristics of two suburban forms which could make positive contributions to suburban sustainability. However, changes in behaviour would be essential to utilise these capabilities of suburban environments.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,Residential gardens;suburbs;suburban morphologies;rainwater harvesting;food production;carbon storage;New South Wales;Suburban Population,,
rayyan-879386137,Improving the provision of ecosystem services from urban forest by integrating the species' potential environmental functions in tree selecting process,2020,1,,LANDSCAPE AND ECOLOGICAL ENGINEERING,1860-1871,16,1,23-37,"Parsa, Vahid Amini and Salehi, Esmail and Yavari, Ahmadreza",,English,SPRINGER JAPAN KK,"SHIROYAMA TRUST TOWER 5F, 4-3-1 TORANOMON, MINATO-KU, TOKYO, 105-6005, JAPAN","Due to the fact that urban environments and population demands are evolving rapidly and species selection is inevitable, it is possible to gain substantial environmental benefit by implementing more effective urban tree planting programs, especially with the aim of increasing the upcoming provision of multiple ecosystem services (ES) through proper species selection. In this paper, we used a new approach to improve the potential of urban trees in optimizing more desirable environmental benefits. This was done by selecting the most appropriate tree species among a vast range of species based on their potential environmental function (both services and disservices) in Tabriz city, Iran. Also, three main planting scenarios (divided to six sub-scenarios) were developed so as to understand the long-term effectiveness of introducing the selected tree species in improving the environmental benefits (both urban forest structure and ES) in comparison with planting the existing tree species. The results indicate that regardless of the quantity of planting, the benefits of introducing the selected trees will be more than planting the existing species. Moreover, as the amount of the annual planting of the recommended species increases, so does the improvement in the projected tree characteristics and ES. This approach creates more opportunities which enable urban forest managers and policymakers to understand the importance of selecting the proper urban tree species when looking for a nature-based solution to promote the wellbeing of the urban population, to create more livable and ecologically sustainable cities and to mitigate urban environmental problems.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,Urban forestry;Ecosystem services approach;Environmental benefits;Disservices;Scenario planning;Evaluation;Trees,,
rayyan-879386156,Landscape Pattern Theoretical Optimization of Urban Green Space Based on Ecosystem Service Supply and Demand,2021,4,,ISPRS INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF GEO-INFORMATION,,10,4,,"Liu, Qinqin and Tian, Yichen and Yin, Kai and Zhang, Feifei and Huang, Huiping and Chen, Fangmiao",,English,MDPI,"ST ALBAN-ANLAGE 66, CH-4052 BASEL, SWITZERLAND","Assessing the supply and demand of urban green space (UGS) ecosystem services (ESs) can provide relevant insights for urban planning. This study presents an analysis method for the spatial distribution of UGS ES supply and demand at administrative unit and 1-m grid scales and directly compares the matches of ES supply and demand in spatially explicit maps at two scales. Based on the analysis results at administrative unit scale, administrative units with an unbalanced UGS ES supply and demand were divided into three types: (?) lack of green space; (II) unreasonable green space structure; ( comprehensive, and different optimization schemes were put forward. According to the analysis results at 1-m scale, the regions with an unbalanced ES supply and demand of an administrative unit were divided into the following: (1) severe ES shortage area; (2) moderate ES shortage area; (3) mild ES shortage area, and the severe ES shortage area was taken as the UGS optimization area. We take the UGS within the 5th Ring Road of Beijing as an example and propose suggestions for optimizing the UGS pattern based on the evaluation of the supply and demand of UGS carbon sequestration services and purification services for particulate matter with an aerodynamic diameter <2.5 mu m (PM2.5). This study provides an easy-to-use evaluation method for the spatial distribution of UGS ES supply and demand and proposes different optimization suggestions for the unbalanced area, thus playing a role in UGS construction activities and green space structure optimization.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,urban green space;ecosystem service;supply and demand balance;landscape pattern optimization,,
rayyan-879386168,Quantifying carbon stocks in urban parks under cold climate conditions,2020,3,,URBAN FORESTRY \& URBAN GREENING,1618-8667,49,,,"Linden, Leena and Riikonen, Anu and Setala, Heikki and Yli-Pelkonen, Vesa",,English,ELSEVIER GMBH,"HACKERBRUCKE 6, 80335 MUNICH, GERMANY","Removing CO2 from the atmosphere and storing carbon in vegetation and soil are important ecosystem services provided by urban green space. However, knowledge on the capacity of trees and soils to store carbon in urban parks - especially in the northern latitudes - is scarce. We assessed the amount of organic carbon stored in trees and soil of constructed urban parks under cold climatic conditions in Finland. More specifically, we investigated the effects of management, vegetation type and time since construction on the amount of carbon stored in park trees and soil. We conducted two tree surveys and collected soil samples (0-90 cm) in constructed parks managed by the city of Helsinki. The estimated overall carbon density was approximately 130 t per park hectare, when the carbon stock of trees was 22 to 28 t ha(-1) and that of soil 104 t ha(-1) at the very least. The soil to tree carbon storage ratio varied from 7.1 to 7.5 for vegetated, pervious grounds and from 3.7 to 5.0 for entire park areas. The effects of park management and vegetation type could not be entirely separated in our data, but time was shown to have a distinct, positive effect on tree and soil carbon stocks. The results indicate that park soils can hold remarkable carbon stocks in a cold climate. It also seems that park soil carbon holding capacity largely exceeds that of forested soils in Finland. Preservation and augmentation of carbon stocks in urban parks implies avoidance of drastic tree and soil renovation measures.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,CO2;Ecosystem services;Hemi-boreal climate;Park management;Urban green space;Urban soils;Cold Temperature,,
rayyan-879386176,"What Causal Drivers Influence Carbon Storage in Shanghai, China's Urban and Peri-Urban Forests?",2017,4,,SUSTAINABILITY,2071-1050,9,4,,"Yao, Xin and Zhao, Min and Escobedo, Francisco J.",,English,MDPI AG,"ST ALBAN-ANLAGE 66, CH-4052 BASEL, SWITZERLAND","Studies have documented many biophysical factors that are correlated with urban forest carbon storage. This urban forest function is also increasingly being promoted as a nature-based solution for cities. While urbanization affects both the structure and function of urban forest ecosystems, quantitative analyses of specific casual drivers of carbon storage in urban versus peri-urban forests are scarce. To address this lack of information, we used field data of random plots located along an urban to rural gradient in Shanghai, China, region-specific biomass equations, and path analysis of commonly studied urban forest socioeconomic and ecological drivers to analyze their effects on above ground tree carbon storage. An urbanization index was also developed to quantitatively differentiate urban from peri-urban sites along the transect. Results show that in both urban and peri-urban forests, percent tree and shrub cover had a significant and positive effect on tree and shrub carbon, but tree and shrub density had an even greater effect. Further, tree and shrub species diversity had no effects on carbon storage, while the effects of species composition on tree and shrub carbon in urban forests was different from those in peri-urban areas. Peri-urban forests also exhibited a significant effect of percent tree and shrub cover on tree and shrub species diversity. This approach, using a path analysis of field and plot data and site-specific dendrometric and urbanization information, can be used to quantitatively identify little explored causal dependences between drivers and ecosystem services without relying exclusively on spatial land cover data often not available in developing countries.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,urban to rural gradient;climate change;nature-based solutions;path analysis;China;Trees,,
rayyan-879386177,Mismatches between ecosystem services supply and demand in urban areas: A quantitative assessment in five European cities,2015,8,,ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS,1470-160X,55,,146-158,"Baro, Francesc and Haase, Dagmar and Gomez-Baggethun, Erik and Frantzeskaki, Niki",,English,ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV,"PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS","Assessing mismatches between ecosystem service (ES) supply and demand can provide relevant insights for enhancing human well-being in urban areas. This paper provides a novel methodological approach to assess regulating ES mismatches on the basis of environmental quality standards and policy goals. Environmental quality standards (EQS) indicate the relationship between environmental quality and human well-being. Thus, they can be used as a common minimum threshold value to determine whether the difference between ES supply and demand is problematic for human well-being. The methodological approach includes three main steps: (1) selection of EQS, (2) definition and quantification of ES supply and demand indicators, and (3) identification and assessment of ES mismatches on the basis of EQS considering certain additional criteria. While ES supply indicators estimate the flow of an ES actually used or delivered, ES demand indicators express the amount of regulation needed in relation to the standard. The approach is applied to a case study consisting of five European cities: Barcelona, Berlin, Stockholm, Rotterdam and Salzburg, considering three regulating ES which are relevant in urban areas: air purification, global climate regulation and urban temperature regulation. The results show that levels of ES supply and demand are highly heterogeneous across the five studied cities and across the EQS considered. The assessment shows that ES supply contributes very moderately in relation to the compliance with the EQS in most part of the identified mismatches. Therefore, this research suggests that regulating ES supplied by urban green infrastructure are expected to play only a minor or complementary role to other urban policies intended to abate air pollution and greenhouse gas emissions at the city scale. The approach has revealed to be appropriate for the regulating ES air purification and global climate regulation, for which well-established standards or targets are available at the city level. Yet, its applicability to the ES urban temperature regulation has proved more problematic due to scale and user dependent constraints. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.","USER-NOTES: {""shannon.clarke""=>[""\""global climate regulation\""?""]} | RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,Air purification;Assessment;Global climate regulation;Green infrastructure;Human well-being;Urban temperature regulation,,
rayyan-879386193,"Ecosystem Services Provided by Urban Forests in the Southern Caucasus Region: A Modeling Study in Tbilisi, Georgia",2021,11,,CLIMATE,,9,11,,"Alpaidze, Levan and Pace, Rocco",,English,MDPI,"ST ALBAN-ANLAGE 66, CH-4052 BASEL, SWITZERLAND","All cities globally are growing considerably as they are experiencing an intensive urbanization process that leads to high soil consumption and pollution of environmental components. For this reason, cities are required to adopt measures to reduce these impacts and tree planting has been suggested as a cost-effective strategy. In our study, we implemented for the first time in a Southern Caucasus city the i-Tree Eco model to quantify the main ecosystem services provided by urban forests. Trees in two parks in Tbilisi, EXPO Park (694 trees) and RED Park (1030 trees), have been measured, and a model simulation was performed for the year 2018. These green infrastructures store large amounts of carbon in their woody tissues (198.4 t for EXPO Park and 126.5 t for RED Park) and each year they sequester 4.6 and 4.7 t of CO2 for EXPO Park and RED Park. They also remove 119.6 and 90.3 kg of pollutants (CO, NO2, O-3, PM2.5, SO2), and reduce water runoff of 269.5 and 200.5 m(3), respectively. This analysis highlights the key role of urban forests in improving the environmental sustainability of the city of Tbilisi and provides important decision support for tree species selection in this geographic area.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,urbanization;nature-based solutions;urban parks;Eastern Europe;i-Tree Eco;Georgia (Republic);Georgia,,
rayyan-879386196,"Urban tree carbon density and CO2 equivalent of National Zoological Park, Delhi",2021,12,,ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING AND ASSESSMENT,0167-6369,193,12,,"Snehlata and Rajlaxmi, Aishwarya and Kumar, Manoj",,English,SPRINGER,"VAN GODEWIJCKSTRAAT 30, 3311 GZ DORDRECHT, NETHERLANDS","In a highly urbanized city like Delhi, the urban forest plays a vital role in climate change mitigation by capturing and storing carbon dioxide (CO2) from the atmosphere. Urban vegetation helps in increasing carbon sink and CO2 equivalent (CO(2)eq) and also provides other aesthetic and psychological environmental benefits. To understand how urban trees are vital for carbon sink, the present study aimed to quantify the carbon density and CO(2)eq in trees at National Zoological Park (NZP), New Delhi, a tropical semi-arid region of India. For this, we estimated tree biomass or dry matter content of 25 species with the help of allometric equations which are available in published literature and applicable for the tropical region. It was observed that the highest diameter at breast height (DBH) was contributed by Ficus sp. while the maximum density among adult tree species found in Albizia procera. The total mean dry matter content, C density, and CO(2)eq of NZP were 92.10 Mg ha(-1), 43.61 Mg-C ha(-1), and 168.83 Mg ha(-1), respectively. The highest biomass, C density, and CO(2)eq obtained in the species of Ficus benghalensis followed by Ficus racemosa and Azadirachta indica. The data indicates that the trees having the capacity to store carbon are essential for the maintenance of a sustainable environment. Thus, the study suggests that there is a substantial scope to increase the carbon density and CO2eq in urban city through adopting various management strategies viz. afforestation and reforestation program on degraded and abandoned land to maintain a clean and sustainable environment.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,Carbon sequestration;Dry matter content;Green space;Tree biomass;Urban vegetation;Trees,,
rayyan-879386240,Evaluating the potential contribution of urban ecosystem service to climate change mitigation,2019,10,,URBAN ECOSYSTEMS,1083-8155,22,5,989-1006,"Parsa, Vahid Amini and Salehi, Esmail and Yavari, Ahmad Reza and van Bodegom, Peter M.",,English,SPRINGER,"VAN GODEWIJCKSTRAAT 30, 3311 GZ DORDRECHT, NETHERLANDS","Promoting urban greenery through tree planting strategies has been considered as a measure to mitigate climate change. While it is essential to understand the temporal dynamics of urban forest structure as well as its services and contribution to human wellbeing in cities, it has hardly ever been examined whether the future contributions of these services after different possible planting strategies can comply with climate change policy goals; these are topics rarely discussed in urban planning and management. In this paper, the ecosystem services currently provided by urban trees (through carbon sequestration and storage), as well as those potentially provided in the future, were quantified using the i-Tree Eco model, and their contribution to climate change mitigation was evaluated. As a case study in Tabriz, Iran, we developed four possible scenarios. Synergy (urban temperature regulation by UF) and trade-off (tree water requirements) were also analyzed. Future carbon sequestration and storage potential of urban trees was compared with the estimated future carbon emissions. The current contribution in Tabriz is relatively modest (about 0.2\%), but it can be tripled through long-term tree planting strategies. Additionally, the temporal cooling effects and tree water requirements increase as climate change mitigation improves through tree planting. We conclude that urban tree planting has a small impact on carbon mitigation in the study area, most likely because of the young age of trees in Tabriz as well as the fact that the planted trees cannot deliver all their benefits over a 20-years period and need more time. Thus, the use of urban trees serves only as a complementary solution rather than an alternative climate mitigation strategy. Our quantitative approach helps urban environmental policymakers to evaluate how much they can rely on urban forest strategies to achieve climate change mitigation targets.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,Carbon storage and sequestration;Greenhouse gas emissions;Urban forest;I-tree eco;Trade-off;Synergy,,
rayyan-879386241,Analyzing the efficacy of subtropical urban forests in offsetting carbon emissions from cities,2010,8,,ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE \& POLICY,1462-9011,13,5,362-372,"Escobedo, Francisco and Varela, Sebastian and Zhao, Min and Wagner, John E. and Zipperer, Wayne",,English,ELSEVIER SCI LTD,"THE BOULEVARD, LANGFORD LANE, KIDLINGTON, OXFORD OX5 1GB, OXON, ENGLAND","Urban forest management and policies have been promoted as a tool to mitigate carbon dioxide (CO(2)) emissions. This study used existing CO(2) reduction measures from subtropical Miami-Dade and Gainesville, USA and modeled carbon storage and sequestration by trees to analyze policies that use urban forests to offset carbon emissions. Field data were analyzed, modeled, and spatially analyzed to compare CO(2) sequestered by managing urban forests to equivalent amounts of CO(2) emitted in both urban areas. Urban forests in Gainesville have greater tree density, store more carbon and present lower per-tree sequestration rates than Miami-Dade as a result of environmental conditions and urbanization patterns. Areas characterized by natural pine-oak forests, mangroves, and stands of highly invasive trees were most apt at sequestering CO(2). Results indicate that urban tree sequestration offsets CO(2) emissions and, relative to total city-wide emissions, is moderately effective at 3.4 percent and 1.8 percent in Gainesville and Miami-Dade, respectively. Moreover, converting available non-treed areas into urban forests would not increase overall CO(2) emission reductions substantially. Current CO(2) sequestration by trees was comparable to implemented CO(2) reduction policies. However, long-term objectives, multiple ecosystem services, costs, community needs, and preservation of existing forests should be considered when managing trees for climate change mitigation and other ecosystem services. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,Florida;Urban tree plantings;Ordinary kriging;Carbon dioxide reduction;Climate change;Trees,,
rayyan-879386261,CONTRIBUTION OF UNIVERSITY CAMPUSES TO CLIMATE CHANGE MITIGATION: ANKARA UNIVERSITY TANDOGAN CAMPUS CASE,2017,,,FRESENIUS ENVIRONMENTAL BULLETIN,1018-4619,26,12,7018-7024,"Dilaver, Zuhal and Yuksel, Ulku Duman and Yilmaz, Firat Caglar",,English,PARLAR SCIENTIFIC PUBLICATIONS (P S P),"ANGERSTR. 12, 85354 FREISING, GERMANY","In recent years, trees have been one of the well studied organic carbon (C) pools in urban areas. As they are recognized as important storage sites for carbon dioxide (CO2), which constitutes the primary greenhouse gas, biological C sequestration in woody plants is suggested as a potential mitigation tool for C emission reduction in cities. Despite this significant contribution of trees, they are not benefited sufficiently in developing countries due mainly to the lack of tree inventory data in urban ecosystems (streets, parks etc.) and inadequate knowledge about their potential in C mitigation. The aim of this paper is to put forward quantitatively the C sequestration and storage of a campus area, which is an important semi-public green area in Ankara's city center. Results of the study showed that in 2015 total sequestered CO2 in Ankara University's campus trees was 179,353.04 kg According to our calculations, the trees stored 1,608,132.39 kg CO2 since the establishment of the campus in 1942.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,Carbon storage;sequestration;climate change;Ankara University Tandogan Campus,,
rayyan-879386275,Implementation of Urban Green Infrastructures in Peri-Urban Areas: A Case Study of Climate Change Mitigation in Madrid,2021,1,,AGRONOMY-BASEL,,11,1,,"Gomez-Villarino, Maria Teresa and Gomez Villarino, Miguel and Ruiz-Garcia, Luis",,English,MDPI,"ST ALBAN-ANLAGE 66, CH-4052 BASEL, SWITZERLAND","Urban areas are critical points that contribute to global warming and are also affected by climate change. One of the measures to move toward urban sustainability and to reduce the effects of climate change is the development of urban green infrastructures. Urban green infrastructures (UGIs) are being increasingly recognized as key providers of ecosystem services in cities, but there is still a lack of support from urban planners. We highlight the potential of urban green infrastructures for sustainable urban planning based on its capacity to mitigate climate change This paper studies the CO2 mitigation potential through a multi-intervention (agricultural and forestry) local case in the peri-urban surroundings of a big European city such as Madrid. We consider two inseparable aspects: the amount of atmospheric CO2-eq reduced through direct carbon uptake of the UGI and also the emission of greenhouse gases due to its implementation and maintenance. The analysis carried out has shown the benefits of urban green infrastructures and their contribution to the mitigation of climate change. The results demonstrate that the absorption capacity of the new urban green infrastructure is much greater than its ecological footprint. Therefore, it contributes to the mitigation of emissions from other urban activities, thus improving urban sustainability.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,climate change;ecological footprint;recovery of degraded areas;peri-urban;urban green infrastructures;urban agriculture;urban forestry,,
rayyan-879386277,Urban Planning Insights from Tree Inventories and Their Regulating Ecosystem Services Assessment,2022,2,,SUSTAINABILITY,,14,3,,"Rossi, Luca and Menconi, Maria Elena and Grohmann, David and Brunori, Antonio and Nowak, David J.",,English,MDPI,"ST ALBAN-ANLAGE 66, CH-4052 BASEL, SWITZERLAND","With the uncertainties that our societies are living with (the COVID-19 pandemic and climate change), it becomes essential to provide urban planners and decision-makers with state-of-the-art and user-friendly methodologies to incorporate ecosystem service considerations into their designs for resilient cities. In this regard, urban forests play a crucial role. The quantification of the ecosystem services is geo-specific and needs studies in different urban contexts. At this scope, we evaluated the urban forest of a neighborhood of a densely built-up Italian city (Perugia) with a low level of urban greenery management and with a tree inventory still in progress. Furthermore, we defined a tool helpful in tree-planting decisions and management. This paper involves citizens in field research for trees inventory. Then, it uses i-Tree Eco to evaluate four ecosystem services (carbon storage and sequestration, pollution removal, and runoff avoided) provided by 373 inventoried urban trees belonging to 57 species. Our results show that Italian Municipal tree inventories do not adequately represent their urban forest and that citizens' participation provides a cost-effective method for integrating field data. Finally, the paper develops an easy tool helping local administrations enhance the ecosystem services provisions in urban green design.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,Mediterranean urban forest;urban green system;i-Tree Eco;urban decision making;citizen science;carbon sequestration;pollution removal;carbon storage;runoff avoided;structural value,,
rayyan-879386278,Promoting sustainable carbon sequestration of plants in urban greenspace by planting design: A case study in parks of Beijing,2021,9,,URBAN FORESTRY \& URBAN GREENING,1618-8667,64,,,"Wang, Yanan and Chang, Qing and Li, Xinyu",,English,ELSEVIER GMBH,"HACKERBRUCKE 6, 80335 MUNICH, GERMANY","Urban greenspace has been highlighted as a means of offsetting carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions and mitigating climate change in cities. However, it is still challenging to design for sustainable carbon sequestration. This study developed a transdisciplinary framework to link carbon sequestration research with planting design practices. Taking 28 urban parks in Beijing as a case, we integrated field investigation and remote sensing images to analyze the relationship between planting design indicators and carbon sequestration efficiency, and the change of carbon sequestration efficiency with the growth of plant biomass. The results showed that carbon sequestration efficiency varied over the urban parks with a mean value of 8.72 gC m 2d-1, and varied with plant growth. The difference was associated with individual plant properties and biotope structure. Medium-sized plants and biotopes with partly open structure are proved cost-effective for sustainable carbon sequestration of urban greenspace. We summarized adaptive planting design strategies for different biotope types and emphasized the benefits of nurturing growing and partly open biotopes structured with different sizes of plants. The results will be possible to produce information for landscape architects for improving sustainable carbon sequestration not only in the study area but also in other cities with similar climatic characteristic.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,Biotope structure;Carbon sequestration efficiency;Landscape design;Plant growth;Plant property,,
rayyan-879386283,Tree Species Diversity and Carbon Storage in Air Quality Enhancement Zones in Taiwan,2015,8,,AEROSOL AND AIR QUALITY RESEARCH,1680-8584,15,4,1291-1299,"Wang, Yi-Chung and Liu, Wan-Yu and Ko, Shu-Hsin and Lin, Jiunn-Cheng",,English,TAIWAN ASSOC AEROSOL RES-TAAR,"CHAOYANG UNIV TECH, DEPT ENV ENG \& MGMT, PROD CTR AAQR, NO 168, JIFONG E RD, WUFONG TOWNSHIP, TAICHUNG COUNTY, 41349, TAIWAN","Taiwan had established air quality enhancement zones (AQEZs) by planting trees, aiming to improve air quality and ecological environment. Trees in the AQEZs reduce the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere by storing carbon in their tissues. Species diversity is a critical factor influencing the capacity of trees to capture carbon. In this study, we assessed tree species diversity and estimated the carbon storage of AQEZs of 98 sampling plots located in four regions. The zones examined contained 210 species from 145 genera and 61 families. Study results showed that despite this apparent diversity, at least one species represented more than 10\% of the identified trees in the four regions. The overall proportion of non-native species was relatively high at 58\%. The greatest individual tree carbon storage was 8.93 metric tons and the mean tree carbon storage was 0.05 tons C/tree. An overall carbon storage of 672.20 tons C in the sampling plots is estimated and carbon storage benefits are expected to increase as these trees mature. The research outcomes can be used for reference for authorities in carbon policy making. Due to the benefits of tree planting, more AQEZs are suggested to build considering the increasingly important global warming issue.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,Air quality enhancement zone (AQEZ);Forest carbon;Urban forest;Green space;Taiwan,,
rayyan-879386291,Ecological Design and Construction Strategies through Life Cycle Assessment of Carbon Budget for Urban Parks in Korea,2021,10,,FORESTS,,12,10,,"Park, Hye-Mi and Jo, Hyun-Kil",,English,MDPI,"ST ALBAN-ANLAGE 66, CH-4052 BASEL, SWITZERLAND","Although urban parks sequester carbon by vegetation growth, they emit carbon due to materials production, transport, construction, management, demolition, and disposal throughout their life cycle. This study estimated the carbon budget of urban parks over their life cycle according to land cover type and explored ecological design and construction strategies to maximize carbon reduction. After setting up the scope of the life cycle, the energy and material used for each stage were analyzed on the basis of field survey, design and construction details, and literature review of 30 study parks. The net carbon uptake per unit of park area averaged 8.51 kg/m(2), with urban parks playing an important role as a source of carbon uptake to mitigate the climate change. This study suggested ecological design and construction strategies including the expansion of tree planting spaces through the minimization of grass and impervious areas, the minimization of changes to existing topography, and the utilization of local materials. As a result of applying these strategies to study parks, the net carbon uptake increased approximately 9.2 times. These study results are expected to be useful as information for the implementation of carbon-neutral policies and greenspace establishment projects.</p>","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,climate change;low carbon;urban greenspace;landscape materials;planting;management;Korea,,
rayyan-879386296,Increasing functional diversity of the urban canopy for climate resilience: Potential tradeoffs with ecosystem services?,2021,3,,URBAN FORESTRY \& URBAN GREENING,1618-8667,58,,,"Wood, S. L. R. and Dupras, J.",,English,ELSEVIER GMBH,"HACKERBRUCKE 6, 80335 MUNICH, GERMANY","Cities are home to an increasing number of people who depend on urban forests to provide ecosystem services such as temperature regulation, air quality improvement and storm water abatement. Climate change may challenge the capacity of urban forests to provide these services. Intensification of heat waves, droughts and strengthening storms could lead to tree die-offs. In Quebec City, work has suggested that the urban canopy is vulnerable to future projected climates, i.e. hotter and drier summers. Compounding this threat, the exotic emerald ash borer is expected to kill 11 \% of municipal trees over the next decade. Together these pressures could lead to a significant loss of canopy cover and ecosystem service provisioning in the near-term. We test whether replanting strategies for lost ash, which shift the forest community towards a more climate tolerant canopy using a functional trait-based approach, can help to mitigate or improve ecosystem service provisioning in the near-term. Using a municipal database of urban trees, we simulate canopy growth and replacement over 20-years for three different replanting scenarios: i) `business-as-usual', ii) `stratified' or iii) `conifer-focused' replanting strategy, and compare their delivery of ecosystem services. Results from the simulations find clear trade-offs in ecosystem service provisioning within and between replanting approaches. The `conifer-focused' scenario provides the highest level of air quality improvement, storm water abatement and reduced energy demands in winter, however there are limitations on where coniferous trees can be planted in cities. In contrast, the `business-as-usual' scenario achieved greater canopy cover, carbon sequestration, and high summertime cooling, but remains vulnerable to climate change. Stratifying replanting across tree functional groups results in the greatest increase to canopy diversity, intermediate levels of ecosystem service provisioning and important reduction in vulnerability to future pests . We suggest that a replanting approach focused on increasing the functional trait diversity of the urban canopy will likely confer the greatest ecosystem service benefits to the urban population and improve the resilience of the urban canopy to pests and climate pressures in the future.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,Urban forest;Climate change;Species composition;Functional diversity;Ecosystem services,,
rayyan-879386299,Ecosystem services: Urban parks under a magnifying glass,2018,1,,ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH,0013-9351,160,,469-478,"Mexia, Teresa and Vieira, Joana and Principe, Adriana and Anjos, Andreia and Silva, Patricia and Lopes, Nuno and Freitas, Catarina and Santos-Reis, Margarida and Correia, Otilia and Branquinho, Cristina and Pinho, Pedro",,English,ACADEMIC PRESS INC ELSEVIER SCIENCE,"525 B ST, STE 1900, SAN DIEGO, CA 92101-4495 USA","Urban areas' population has grown during the last century and it is expected that over 60\% of the world population will live in cities by 2050. Urban parks provide several ecosystem services that are valuable to the wellbeing of city-dwellers and they are also considered a nature-based solution to tackle multiple environmental problems in cities. However, the type and amount of ecosystem services provided will vary with each park vegetation type, even within same the park. Our main goal was to quantify the trade-offs in ecosystem services associated to different vegetation types, using a spatially detailed approach. Rather than relying solely on general vegetation typologies, we took a more ecologically oriented approach, by explicitly considering different units of vegetation structure and composition. This was demonstrated in a large park (44 ha) located in the city of Almada (Lisbon metropolitan area, Portugal), where six vegetation units were mapped in detail and six ecosystem services were evaluated: carbon sequestration, seed dispersal, erosion prevention, water purification, air purification and habitat quality. The results showed that, when looking at the park in detail, some ecosystem services varied greatly with vegetation type. Carbon sequestration was positively influenced by tree density, independently of species composition. Seed dispersal potential was higher in lawns, and mixed forest provided the highest amount of habitat quality. Air purification service was slightly higher in mixed forest, but was high in all vegetation types, probably due to low background pollution, and both water purification and erosion prevention were high in all vegetation types. Knowing the type, location, and amount of ecosystem services provided by each vegetation type can help to improve management options based on ecosystem services trade-offs and looking for win-win situations. The trade-offs are, for example, very clear for carbon: tree planting will boost carbon sequestration regardless of species, but may not be enough to increase habitat quality. Moreover, it may also negatively influence seed dispersal service. Informed practitioners can use this ecological knowledge to promote the role of urban parks as a nature-based solution to provide multiple ecosystem services, and ultimately improve the design and management of the green infrastructure. This will also improve the science of Ecosystem Services, acknowledging that the type of vegetation matters for the provision of ecosystem services and trade-offs analysis.","RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,Ecosystem services;Urban parks;Spatially detailed;Land management;Vegetation type;Eyeglasses;Ecosystem,,
rayyan-879386325,Carbon sequestration and noise attenuation provided by hedges in Rome: the contribution of hedge traits in decreasing pollution levels,2013,,,ATMOSPHERIC POLLUTION RESEARCH,1309-1042     J9  - ATMOS POLLUT RES     JI  - Atmos. Pollut. Res.,4,3,315-322,"Gratani, L and Varone, L",,English,,"Univ Roma La Sapienza, Dept Environm Biol, I-00185 Rome, Italy","Hedges are ubiquitous green elements in many European cities. The selection of hedge types characterized by different traits can be suggested for urban greening projects to decrease pollution levels. At this end, carbon dioxide (CO2) sequestration and noise attenuation capability were analyzed in the following hedge types: Laurus nobilis, Nerium oleander, Pittosporum tobira and Pyracantha coccinea, largely used as green infrastructure in Rome (Italy). Representative hedges for each species were selected from high level traffic streets in the city centre (P sites). Traffic density (TD) was monitored simultaneously with CO2 concentration and noise level (N) in each of the considered P sites. The monthly CO2 sequestration capability (MSC) was calculated multiplying the total photosynthesis per hedge by the total photosynthetic activity time (in hours) per month. The multiple regression analysis predicted noise attenuation (Delta N) by a linear combination of total leaf area (TLA), total leaf density (TLD) and leaf mass area (LMA) of the considered hedge types. All the considered species, being evergreens, were active all year long, including winter, when CO2 emissions from road transport peaked. Nevertheless, among the considered hedge types, P. tobira and L. nobilis were the most efficient species in both MSC (31.6 +/- 2.8 and 25.4 +/- 2.4 kg CO2 month(-1), respectively) and Delta N (15 +/- 1%, mean value). The results give insight on the use of hedges to mitigate pollution effects. Moreover, this method can be used to monitor hedge contribution to air quality, in relation to various elements in the city (i.e. traffic density, new cars produced, application of management projects, local laws). These results might be available for projects based on the use of vegetation in order to improve environmental quality in urban areas.","Times Cited in Web of Science Core Collection:  14     Total Times Cited:  16     Cited Reference Count:  63 | RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,CO2 sequestration;evergreen species;hedge;noise attenuation;urban area;ENVIRONMENTAL NOISE;URBAN FORESTS;REDUCTION;EMISSIONS;DIOXIDE;CITY;CO2;VEGETATION;STORAGE;FLUXES,,
rayyan-879386332,"Impacts of urban forests on offsetting carbon emissions from industrial energy use in Hangzhou, China",2010,,,JOURNAL OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT,"[""0301-4797"", ""1095-8630     J9  - J ENVIRON MANAGE     JI  - J. Environ. Manage.""]",91,4,807-813,"Zhao, M and Kong, ZH and Escobedo, FJ and Gao, J",,English,,"[""Shanghai Normal Univ, Urban Ecol & Environm Res Ctr, Shanghai 200234, Peoples R China"", ""E China Normal Univ, Key Lab Urbanizat & Ecol Restorat, Shanghai 200062, Peoples R China"", ""Univ Florida, Sch Forest Resources & Conservat, IFAS, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA""]","This study quantified carbon storage and sequestration by urban forests and carbon emissions from energy consumption by several industrial sources in Hangzhou, China. Carbon (C) storage and sequestration were quantified using urban forest inventory data and by applying volume-derived biomass equations and other models relating net primary productivity (NPP) and mean annual biomass increments. Industrial energy use C emissions were estimated by accounting for fossil fuel use and assigning C emission factors. Total C storage by Hangzhou's urban forests was estimated at 11.74 Tg C, and C storage per hectare was 30.25 t C. Carbon sequestration by urban forests was 1,328,166.55 t C/year, and C sequestration per ha was 1.66 t C/ha/year. Carbon emissions from industrial energy use in Hangzhou were 7 Tg C/year. Urban forests, through sequestration, annually offset 18.57% of the amount of carbon emitted by industrial enterprises, and store an amount of C equivalent to 1.75 times the amount of annual C emitted by industrial energy uses within the city. Management practices for improving Hangzhou's urban forests function of offsetting C emissions from energy consumption are explored. These results can be used to evaluate the urban forests' role in reducing atmospheric carbon dioxide. (C) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.","Times Cited in Web of Science Core Collection:  126     Total Times Cited:  161     Cited Reference Count:  43 | RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,Carbon storage;Carbon sequestration;Fossil fuel use;Carbon emission;Urban forest management;NET PRIMARY PRODUCTIVITY;STORAGE;SEQUESTRATION;BIOMASS;CLIMATE;VEGETATION;GUANGZHOU;China;Trees,,
rayyan-879386352,Plant crown traits and carbon sequestration capability by Platanus hybrida Brot. in Rome,2007,,,LANDSCAPE AND URBAN PLANNING,"[""0169-2046"", ""1872-6062     J9  - LANDSCAPE URBAN PLAN     JI  - Landsc. Urban Plan.""]",81,4,282-286,"Gratani, L and Varone, L",,English,,"Univ Roma La Sapienza, Dept Plant Biol, I-00185 Rome, Italy","Measurements of carbon dioxide (CO2) concentration carried out in the city of Rome in the period January-December 2005 showed a mean yearly CO2 concentration of 414 +/- 45 ppm; polluted sites (P sites) had 21% higher CO2 concentration than control sites (C sites). The significant (p < 0.01) correlation analysis between CO2 concentration and traffic density measured during the study period at P sites showed that traffic density explained 51% of the CO2 variation. The CO2 trend during the traffic limitation days (provision imposed by ordinance of the City Council) did not show significant differences as regards regular traffic days, suggesting the ineffectiveness of this provision. Leaf area index (LAI) of Platanus hybrida Brot. was on an average 11% lower at P sites than at C ones associated with a lower total photosynthetic leaf surface area (SPT, 34% lower at P sites than at C ones). P. hybrida had a total carbon sequestration of 117 +/- 13 kg year(-1) (mean value of P and C sites) playing an important role in sequestering CO2. Thus, the choice of plant species for urban areas may be set out taking into account their own air amelioration capability. Plant traits of each species may be used for urban tree planting programs to ameliorate urban air pollution. (c) 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.","Times Cited in Web of Science Core Collection:  29     Total Times Cited:  30     Cited Reference Count:  21 | RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,Platanus hybrida;CO2 concentration;CO2 sequestration;urban area;URBAN CO2 DOME;PHOENIX;CITY;ARIZONA;AREAS,,
rayyan-879386355,Investigation on the carbon sequestration capacity of vegetation along a heavy traffic load expressway,2019,,,JOURNAL OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT,"[""0301-4797"", ""1095-8630     J9  - J ENVIRON MANAGE     JI  - J. Environ. Manage.""]",241,,549-557,"Fu, DF and Bu, B and Wu, JG and Singh, RP",,English,,"Southeast Univ, Sch Civil Engn, Nanjing 210096, Jiangsu, Peoples R China","Carbon sequestration by vegetation plays an important role in the global carbon cycle. More emphasis on the carbon sequestration of roadside vegetation will help to reduce the total carbon emissions from the transportation sector. In the current study, the Shanghai-Nanjing G42 expressway in east China was selected to investigate and calculate the carbon sequestration of roadside vegetation including trees, shrubs and herbs. Findings of the current study revealed that the total carbon sequestration of all the vegetation was about 97,000 tons per year. Results also indicated that trees have a higher carbon sequestration capacity (gamma) in unit land area compared to shrubs and herbs. The gamma value of most of the shrubs was lower than that of tree; however, species such as Neriwn indicum, Jasminum mesnyi and Forsythia suspense have better carbon sequestration capacity than some other tree species. The gamma value of herbs was too low, compared with trees and shrubs. The findings of the current study will be of great benefit to make the vegetation planting strategy for express highways in the areas with similar geographic characteristics and climate.","Times Cited in Web of Science Core Collection:  5     Total Times Cited:  7     Cited Reference Count:  33 | RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,Carbon sequestration;Greenhouse gases;Carbon emission;Roadside vegetation;Shanghai-Nanjing G42 expressway;STORAGE;URBAN;STOCKS;PLANTATIONS;MANAGEMENT;WETLANDS;DIOXIDE;TREES;CITY;Vegetables,,
rayyan-879386363,Screening and evaluation of candidate trees for terrestrial carbon storage in regions with high air pollution and water stress,2017,,,CARBON MANAGEMENT,"[""1758-3004"", ""1758-3012     J9  - CARBON MANAG     JI  - Carbon Manag.""]",8,5,445-456,"Saini, D",,English,,"Calif State Univ, Dept Phys & Engn, Bakersfield, CA 93311 USA","Terrestrial carbon storage is one of many different ways to tackle the problem of greenhouse gases (GHG) emissions resulting from non-point sources. However, the development of large-scale urban forest acreage is not an easy undertaking, and will require significant resources. The systematic screening of candidate tree species and preliminary estimations of their atmospheric carbon removal potential can help stakeholders and policymakers devise site-specific strategies for developing and maintaining sustainable urban forest acreage.        This study is focused on finding native candidate trees that are drought-resistant, and could continue to store (sequester) atmospheric carbon in significant quantities over an extended period (> 100 years). In the study, seven urban tree species were identified as the top candidates for terrestrial carbon storage in water-stressed Californian regions, which are also the regions with the worst air quality in the nation.        Although the present study is focused on particular water-stressed and air-polluted regions of California, the methodology and strategies presented may serve as a starting point for launching site-specific scoping studies to evaluate the terrestrial carbon storage potential of future urban forest projects in other parts of the world.","Times Cited in Web of Science Core Collection:  1     Total Times Cited:  1     Cited Reference Count:  51 | RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,Urban trees;terrestrial carbon storage;GHG emissions;carbon management;Dehydration;Mass Screening,,
rayyan-879386365,Quantifying carbon sequestration of various green roof and ornamental landscape systems,2014,,,LANDSCAPE AND URBAN PLANNING,"[""0169-2046"", ""1872-6062     J9  - LANDSCAPE URBAN PLAN     JI  - Landsc. Urban Plan.""]",123,,41-48,"Whittinghill, LJ and Rowe, DB and Schutzki, R and Cregg, BM",,English,,"[""Columbia Univ, Earth Inst, Urban Design Lab, Interchurch Ctr, New York, NY 10115 USA"", ""Michigan State Univ, Dept Hort, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA"", ""Dept Forestry, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA""]","Interest in reducing carbon emissions and carbon trading programs has been increasing. In order to calculate the carbon benefits of landscapes, we must first understand how they sequester and store carbon. Carbon dynamics have been extensively studied in natural and agricultural landscapes, and urban and community forests. Relatively little is known about carbon sequestration in ornamental landscapes. This study compared the carbon content of nine in ground and three green roof landscape systems of varying complexity to determine their carbon sequestration potential. Soil or substrate samples were analyzed prior to planting in 2009 and soil/substrate, below- and above-ground biomass were analyzed at the end of the 2010 and 2011 growing seasons. Landscape systems containing more woody plants, such shrubs (65.67, 78.75, and 62.91 kg m(-2)) and herbaceous perennials and grasses (68.75 and 67.70 kg m(-2) for the in-ground and green roofs, respectively) had higher carbon content than other landscape systems. The native prairie mix (28.57 kg m(-2)) also had high carbon content, because of the high volume of plant biomass. The vegetable and herb garden and vegetable green roof contained a moderate amount of carbon (54.18 and 11.03 kg m(-2), respectively). The Sedum and prairie green roofs contained less carbon than their counterpart in-ground landscape systems, suggesting that although green roofs do sequester a small amount of carbon, greater benefit can be achieved in ground level landscape systems. Ornamental landscapes have good potential for carbon sequestration but management practices can affect their net carbon sequestration and the permanence of the carbon sequestered. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.","Times Cited in Web of Science Core Collection:  59     Total Times Cited:  61     Cited Reference Count:  17 | RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,Carbon sequestration;Green roof;Ornamental landscapes;Urban agriculture;Sedum;FOREST;DYNAMICS,,
rayyan-879386383,Estimating aboveground net primary productivity of reforested trees in an urban landscape using biophysical variables and remotely sensed data,2022,,,SCIENCE OF THE TOTAL ENVIRONMENT,"[""0048-9697"", ""1879-1026     J9  - SCI TOTAL ENVIRON     JI  - Sci. Total Environ.""]",802,,,"Mngadi, M and Odindi, J and Mutanga, O and Sibanda, M",,English,,"Univ KwaZulu Natal, Sch Agr Earth & Environm Sci, Discipline Geog, Pietermaritzburg, South Africa","Recently, urban reforestation programs have emerged as potential carbon sinks and climate mitigates in urban landscapes. Thus, spatially explicit information on net primary productivity (NPP) of reforested trees in urban environments is central to understanding the value of reforestation initiatives in the global carbon budget and climate regulation potential. To date, numerous studies have mainly focused on natural and commercial forests NPP at a regional scale based on coarse spatial resolution remotely sensed data. Generally, local scale NPP studies based on fine spatial resolution data are limited. Therefore, this study sought to estimate aboveground NPP of an urban reforested landscape using biophysical and Sentinel-2 Multispectral Imager data derived variables. Using the MOD17 model, results showed that mean NPP ranged between 6.24 Mg C ha(-1) with high coefficient of determination (R-2 : 0.92) and low RMSE (0.82 Mg ha(-1)) across all reforested trees within the study area. Results also showed a considerable variation in NPP among the reforested trees, with deciduous Acacia and Dalbergia obovate species showing the highest NPP (7.62 Mg C ha(-1) and 7.58 Mg C ha(-1)) respectively), while the evergreen Syzygium cordatum and shrub Artemisia afro had the lowest NPP (4.54 Mg C ha(-1) and 526 Mg C ha(-1)). Furthermore, the multiple linear regression analysis showed that vegetation specific biophysical variables (i.e. leaf area index, Normalized Difference Vegetation Index and Fraction of Photosynthetically Active Radiation) significantly improved the estimation of reforested aboveground NPP at a fine-scale resolution. These findings demonstrate the effectiveness of biophysical and remotely sensed variables in determining NPP (as carbon sequestration surrogate) at fine-scaled reforested urban landscape. Furthermore, the utility of species biometric measurements and MOD17 model offers unprecedented opportunity for improved local scale reforestation assessment and monitoring schedules. (C) 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.","Times Cited in Web of Science Core Collection:  0     Total Times Cited:  0     Cited Reference Count:  54 | RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,Photosynthetic active radiation;Carbon flux;MOD17;Species;FOREST CARBON STOCKS;LEAF-AREA INDEX;ALLOCATION PATTERNS;TERRESTRIAL GROSS;USE EFFICIENCY;SATELLITE;PHOTOSYNTHESIS;REGENERATION;RADIATION;UTILITY;Trees,,
rayyan-879386385,Carbon Offset Service and Design Guideline of Tree Planting for Multifamily Residential Sites in Korea,2019,,,SUSTAINABILITY,2071-1050     J9  - SUSTAINABILITY-BASEL     JI  - Sustainability,11,13,,"Jo, HK and Park, HM and Kim, JY",,English,,"[""Kangwon Natl Univ, Dept Ecol Landscape Architecture Design, Chunchon 24341, South Korea"", ""Kangwon Natl Univ, Grad Sch, Dept Landscape Architecture, Chunchon 24341, South Korea""]","Multifamily residential sites (MRS) are practical alternatives for securing a carbon uptake source in urban areas where hardscape is dominant, as trees must be planted in the lot area, according to the current landscape-related ordinances in Korea. Tree planting contributes to sustainability of residential sites through carbon reduction. This study quantified direct and indirect carbon reduction from tree planting in MRS in Korea and explored sustainable design guidelines to maximize the carbon offset service of MRS. The total annual direct and indirect carbon reduction through tree planting in all the MRS was estimated to be about 101.1 kt/year. This carbon reduction equaled 3.3% of the total annual carbon emissions from the heating and cooling energy consumption of multifamily buildings. This study considered both direct and indirect carbon reduction from trees in MRS which was insufficient in previous studies. The results of this study can be useful internationally by sharing the information of sustainable residential design in enhancing carbon offset service.","Times Cited in Web of Science Core Collection:  2     Total Times Cited:  2     Cited Reference Count:  46 | RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,carbon reduction;building energy saving;urban tree;design model;ecological service;tree planting structure;URBAN;REDUCTION;EMISSIONS;STRATEGIES;POWER;Korea,,
rayyan-879386390,"Study of CO2 Emissions from Traffic and CO2 Sequestration by Vegetation Based on Eddy Covariance Flux Measurements in Suburb of Beijing, China",2020,,,POLISH JOURNAL OF ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES,"[""1230-1485"", ""2083-5906     J9  - POL J ENVIRON STUD     JI  - Pol. J. Environ. Stud.""]",29,1,727-738,"Lia, Y and Gao, J and Dong, SC and Zheng, J and Jiac, X",,English,,"[""Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Geog Sci & Nat Resources Res, Beijing 100101, Peoples R China"", ""Univ Chinese Acad Sci, Coll Resources & Environm, Beijing 100190, Peoples R China"", ""Beijing Forestry Univ, Sch Soil & Water Conservat, Beijing 100083, Peoples R China""]","Many studies have shown that urban forests function as important carbon (C) sinks by sequestering carbon dioxide (CO2), and there are a great deal of scientific data on their potential to fix CO2 through photosynthesis, including variations among vegetation types and temporal dynamics. However, although vehicle traffic is one of the main anthropogenic sources of CO2, the relationship between these emissions and sequestration by vegetation is unclear. Here, we use the eddy covariance technique to directly measure the net CO2 flux to: (1) quantitatively validate C emissions from transportation and C sequestration by vegetation at the spatio-temporal resolution of 1 km and 30 min and (2) select tree species that best sequester C by photosynthesis and identify the major controlling factors. During the daytime monitoring period (7:00-17:00) of the plant-growing season (May-October), the net photosynthetic C sequestration per tree was used to measure the C fixation capacity of different tree species, and the order was Mono maple > Amur cork tree > Goldenrain > Chinese ash > Chinese pine > Ginkgo. In the study, C sequestration by trees was primarily controlled by photosynthetically active radiation, traffic volume and relative humidity, which together explained 92.3% of the total C sequestration by trees during the monitoring period in the growing season, and C sequestration was positively correlated with photosynthetically active radiation and traffic flow, but negatively correlated with relative humidity. Furthermore, vehicle CO2 emissions significantly increased the amount of photosynthetic C sequestration due to a fertilization effect. Therefore, it is necessary to improve the accuracy of micro-scale regional C flux measurements in order to more accurately determine CO2 sources and sinks and inform the selection of vegetation that can maximize the sequestration of traffic CO2 emissions.","Times Cited in Web of Science Core Collection:  0     Total Times Cited:  0     Cited Reference Count:  59 | RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,CO2 emissions from transportation;CO2 fluxes;CO2 sequestration by vegetation;fertilization effect;OFFSETTING CARBON EMISSIONS;URBAN FORESTS;DECIDUOUS FOREST;STORAGE;MODEL;TREES;PHOTOSYNTHESIS;DENSITY;BALANCE;CANOPY;China;Vegetables,,
rayyan-879386414,"Urban expansion simulation and the spatio-temporal changes of ecosystem services, a case study in Atlanta Metropolitan area, USA",2018,,,SCIENCE OF THE TOTAL ENVIRONMENT,"[""0048-9697"", ""1879-1026     J9  - SCI TOTAL ENVIRON     JI  - Sci. Total Environ.""]",622,,974-987,"Sun, X and Crittenden, JC and Li, F and Lu, ZM and Dou, XL",,English,,"[""Chinese Acad Sci, Res Ctr Ecoenvironm Sci, State Key Lab Urban & Reg Ecol, 18 Shuangqing Rd, Beijing 100085, Peoples R China"", ""Univ Chinese Acad Sci, Beijing 100049, Peoples R China"", ""Georgia Inst Technol, Sch Civil & Environm Engn, Brook Byers Inst Sustainable Syst, 828 West Peachtree St NW,Suite 320, Atlanta, GA 30332 USA"", ""Beijing Normal Univ, Sch Environm, Beijing 100875, Peoples R China""]","Urban expansion can lead to land use changes and, hence, threatens the ecosystems. Understanding the effects of urbanization on ecosystem services (ESs) can provide scientific guidance for land use planning and the protection of ESs. We established a framework to assess the spatial distributions of ESs based on land use changes in the Atlanta Metropolitan area (AMA) from 1985 to 2012. A new comprehensive ecosystem service (CES) index was developed to reflect the comprehensive level of ESs. Associated with the influential factors, we simulated the business as usual scenario in 2030. Four alternative scenarios, including more compact growth (MCG), riparian vegetation buffer (RVB), soil conservation (SC), and combined development (CD) scenarios were developed to explore the optimal land use strategies which can enhance the ESs. The results showed that forest and wetland had the greatest decreases, while low and high intensity built-up lands had the greatest increases. The values of CES and most of ESs decreased significantly due to the sprawling expansion of built-up land. The scenario analysis revealed that the CD scenario performs best in CES value, while it performs the worst in food supply. Compared with the RVB and SC scenarios, MCG scenario is a more optimal land use strategy to enhance the ESs without at the expense of food supply. To integrate multiple ESs into land use planning and decision making, corresponding land management policies and ecological engineering measures should be implemented to enhance: (1) the water yield and water purification in urban core counties, (2) the carbon storage, habitat quality, and recreational opportunity in counties around the core area, and (3) the soil conservation and food supply in surrounding suburban counties. The land use strategies and ecological engineering measures in this study can provide references for enhancing the ESs in the AMA and other metropolitan areas. (c) 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.","Times Cited in Web of Science Core Collection:  90     Total Times Cited:  98     Cited Reference Count:  100 | RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Emily""=>""Included""} | USER-NOTES: {""Emily""=>[""Urban, temperate. Models scenarios of different land use strategies and how they affect ecosystem service delivery, including carbon storage. ""]}",,Ecosystem services (ESs);Land use simulation;Markov-logistic-CA model;InVEST model;Scenarios;LAND-USE CHANGE;WASTE-WATER TREATMENT;USE/LAND COVER CHANGE;TRADE-OFFS;CARBON STORAGE;LANDSCAPE PATTERNS;POTENTIAL IMPACTS;HIERARCHY PROCESS;MODELING APPROACH;NORTH-CAROLINA,,
rayyan-879386429,STUDY ON CARBON STORAGE OF URBAN GARDEN VEGETATION-A CASE STUDY OF JIANGNAN UNIVERSITY,2013,,,PROCEEDINGS OF THE 2013 INTERNATIONAL ACADEMIC WORKSHOP ON SOCIAL SCIENCE (IAW-SC 2013),"[""1951-6851"", ""978-90-78677-84-0     J9  - ADV INTEL SYS RES""]",50,,1030-1034     WE  - Conference Proceedings Citation Index - Social Science &amp; Humanities (CPCI-SSH),"Dai, Y and Guo, SB and Wu, YH",,English,,"Jiangnan Univ, Sch Business, Wuxi, Peoples R China","In the process of exploiting low carbon economy, carbon storage plays an important role in counteracting greenhouse gases. Even though various researches have been done on carbon storage of forests and soil, the study of urban gardening is only 1.27%. But the proportion is increasing in recent years. Our research is aiming to get original statistics of the carbon storage of the targeted school ""Jiangnan University"" via direct harvest method, different speed growth equation method., and biological expansion factorization method, to analyze individual tree and to provide reference in choosing dominant tree species and generating proper plantation strategy.","Times Cited in Web of Science Core Collection:  2     Total Times Cited:  2     Cited Reference Count:  11 | RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,urban gardening;carbon storage;metering method;dominant tree species;Vegetables,,
rayyan-879386448,"Inconsistent definitions of ""urban"" result in different conclusions about the size of urban carbon and nitrogen stocks",2012,,,ECOLOGICAL APPLICATIONS,"[""1051-0761"", ""1939-5582     J9  - ECOL APPL     JI  - Ecol. Appl.""]",22,3,1015-1035,"Raciti, SM and Hutyra, LR and Rao, P and Finzi, AC",,English,,"[""Boston Univ, Dept Geog & Environm, Boston, MA 02215 USA"", ""Boston Univ, Dept Biol, Boston, MA 02215 USA""]","There is conflicting evidence about the importance of urban soils and vegetation in regional C budgets that is caused, in part, by inconsistent definitions of ""urban"" land use. We quantified urban ecosystem contributions to C stocks in the Boston (Massachusetts, USA) Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA) using several alternative urban definitions. Development altered aboveground and belowground C and N stocks, and the sign and magnitude of these changes varied by land use and development intensity. Aboveground biomass (live trees, dbh >= 5 cm) for the MSA was 7.2 +/- 0.4 kg C/m(2) (mean +/- SE), reflecting a high proportion of forest cover. Vegetation C was highest in forest (11.6 +/- 0.5 kg C/m(2)), followed by residential (4.6 +/- 0.5 kg C/m(2)), and then other developed (2.0 +/- 0.4 kg C/m(2)) land uses. Soil C (0-10 cm depth) followed the same pattern of decreasing C concentration from forest, to residential, to other developed land uses (4.1 +/- 0.1, 4.0 +/- 0.2, and 3.3 +/- 0.2 kg C/m(2), respectively). Within a land use type, urban areas (which we defined as >25% impervious surface area [ISA] within a 1-km(2) moving window) generally contained less vegetation C, but slightly more soil C, than nonurban areas. Soil N concentrations were higher in urban areas than nonurban areas of the same land use type, except for residential areas, which had similarly high soil N concentrations. When we compared our definition of urban to other commonly used urban extents (U. S. Census Bureau, Global Rural-Urban Mapping Project [GRUMP], and the MSA itself), we found that urban soil (1 m depth) and vegetation C stocks spanned a wide range, from 14.4 +/- 0.8 to 54.5 +/- 3.4 Tg C and from 4.2 +/- 0.4 to 27.3 +/- 3.2 Tg C, respectively. Conclusions about the importance of urban soils and vegetation to regional C and N stocks are very sensitive to the definition of urban used by the investigators. Urban areas, regardless of definition, are rapidly expanding in their extent; a systematic understanding of how our development patterns influence ecosystems is necessary to inform future development choices.","Times Cited in Web of Science Core Collection:  77     Total Times Cited:  78     Cited Reference Count:  98 | RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,"biomass;Boston, Massachusetts, USA;carbon;development;forest;impervious surface area;nitrogen;residential land use;scale;soil;urban definition;urbanization;LAND-COVER DATABASE;SOIL ORGANIC-CARBON;ATMOSPHERIC CO2;LONG-TERM;UNITED-STATES;NEW-YORK;BIOMASS;TREE;URBANIZATION;RETENTION;Nitrogen",,
rayyan-879386460,Greening rail infrastructure for carbon benefits,2017,,,"INTERNATIONAL HIGH-PERFORMANCE BUILT ENVIRONMENT CONFERENCE - A SUSTAINABLE BUILT ENVIRONMENT CONFERENCE 2016 SERIES (SBE16), IHBE 2016",1877-7058     J9  - PROCEDIA ENGINEER,180,,1716-1724,"Blair, J and Roldan, C and Ghosh, S and Yung, SH",,English,,"[""UNSW, High St, Sydney, NSW 2052, Australia"", ""Transport New South Wales TfNSW, 12 Help St, Sydney, NSW 2067, Australia"", ""UTS, 702-730 Harris St, Sydney, NSW 2007, Australia""]","Metropolitan Sydney has a network of rail corridors almost 400 kilometers in length, which vary in width from narrow cuttings to wide easements. With an appropriate selection of vegetation species, these corridors can be used to offset carbon emissions from railway operations. Simultaneously, the plantings will improve air quality, reduce pollution and storm water flows, ameliorate urban heating deliver biodiversity gains and improve urban design and property values. A pilot study was carried out on a representative section of one of the major rail lines in Sydney in 2016. A detailed inventory of vegetation on the selected site was obtained through a field survey and a variety of tools were used including i-Tree Eco to benchmark current carbon sequestration and storage (CS&S) levels. Study outcomes include the existing carbon capacity of the rail corridor's above-ground (and substrate) biomass and air pollution reduction. It also presents estimates of CS&S potential by identifying future planting areas within the pilot study corridor. These results are valuable for infrastructure policy formulation directed towards carbon emissions as well as securing the co-benefits noted above. (C) 2017 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.","Times Cited in Web of Science Core Collection:  5     Total Times Cited:  6     Cited Reference Count:  10 | RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,Green infrastructure;grey infrastructure;carbon sequestration;carbon storage;air pollution;railway corridor;urban forests;vegetation;SEQUESTRATION;STORAGE;URBAN,,
rayyan-879386493,Is urban green space a carbon sink or source? - A case study of China based on LCA method,2022,1,1,,,94,,,"Zhang, Y., Meng, W., Yun, H., Xu, W., Hu, B., He, M., Mo, X., Zhang, L.",,,,,,"RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,China,,
rayyan-879386497,"Analysis of urban forest Carbon sequestration capacity: A case study of Zengdu, Suizhou",2017,1,1,,,42,2,,"Yu, X., Wang, H., Cai, W., Han, Y.",,,,,,"RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,"",,
rayyan-879386525,"Iowa, U.S., communities benefit from a tree-planting program: Characteristics of recently planted trees",2004,1,1,,,30,1,,"Thompson, J.R., Nowak, D.J., Crane, D.E., Hunkins, J.A.",,,,,,"RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,Iowa;Trees,,
rayyan-879386528,Are ecosystem service hotspots located in protected areas? Results from a study in Southern Italy,2017,1,1,,,73,,,"Span, M., Leronni, V., Lafortezza, R., Gentile, F.",,,,,,"RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,Italy;Ecosystem,,
rayyan-879386538,"Ecosystem-based adaptation to climate change through residential urban green structures: co-benefits to thermal comfort, biodiversity, carbon storage and social interaction",2021,1,1,,,6,,,"Schmidt, K., Walz, A.",,,,,,"RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,Interpersonal Relations;Ecosystem,,
rayyan-879386551,The contribution of the park trees to the adaptation of a city to climate change. The case of Thessaloniki,2019,1,1,,,2019,,,"Papagiannopoulou, D.N., Tsitsoni, T.K., Kontogianni, A.B.",,,,,,"RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,"",,
rayyan-879386556,An inventory of trees in dublin city centre,2010,1,1,,,43,2,,"Ningal, T., Mills, G., Smithwick, P.",,,,,,"RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,Trees,,
rayyan-879386564,"Structure, function and value of street trees in California, USA",2016,1,1,,,17,,,"McPherson, E.G., van Doorn, N., de Goede, J.",,,,,,"RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,California;Trees,,
rayyan-879386565,Monitoring million trees LA: Tree performance during the early years and future benefits,2014,1,1,,,40,5,,"McPherson, E.G.",,,,,,"RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Danielle""=>""Included""}",,Trees,,
rayyan-879386572,"Comparison of carbon storage, carbon sequestration, and air pollution removal by protected and maintained urban forests in Alabama, USA",2012,1,1,,,8,3,,"Martin, N.A., Chappelka, A.H., Loewenstein, E.F., Keever, G.J.",,,,,,"RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,"",,
rayyan-879386575,Structure and ecological benefits evaluation of street trees in Shenyang based on i-Tree (STRATUM) model,2011,1,1,,,,,,"Ma, N., Chen, W., He, X.",,,,,,"RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,Trees,,
rayyan-879386595,Improvement of the planting method to increase the carbon reduction capacity of urban street trees,2021,1,1,,,24,2,,"Kim, J.-Y., Jo, H.-K., Park, H.-M.",,,,,,"RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,"",,
rayyan-879386608,The role of street and park trees to CO2 removal and improving air quality and climate in urban areas in Najaf (Iraq)Type the title of your paper here,2020,1,1,,,870,1,,"Guda, M.A., Obaid, J.K., Alduhaidahawi, F.J., Alkurdi, H.J.A., Alkareemaw, H.G.L., Salih, H.M., Isawi, H.F.M.A.L.",,,,,,"RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,Trees,,
rayyan-879386624,Scaling up nature-based solutions for climate-change adaptation: Potential and benefits in three European cities,2022,1,1,,,67,,,"Cortinovis, C., Olsson, P., Boke-Oln, N., Hedlund, K.",,,,,,"RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",,"",,
rayyan-897599677,Taking the pulse of forest plantations success in peri-urban environments through continuous inventory,2017,,,New Forests,0169-4286,48,4,527-545,"B., Ferrari and L.D., Mancini and R., Salvati and A., Barbati and P., Corona",,,,,,"RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""} | RAYYAN-INCLUSION: {""Kayleigh""=>""Included""}",10.1007/s11056-017-9580-x,Pulse,,
